                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                         July 13, 2021

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: July 22, 2021

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Planning Manager/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:      TriView Apartments Phase II – Site Plan Request
         Application No.: SPR-022-2021
         Applicant:        Cara Hicks, representing Triago Ventures
         Project Location: 12308 South Pony Express Rd.
         Current Zoning: CR (Regional Commercial) Zone
         Acreage:          8.27 Acres (Approximately 360,241 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Site Plan in the CR zone regarding the
                           redevelopment of the property into three apartment buildings,
                           including mixed use buildings.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 8.27 acres located
on the west side of Pony Express Rd., at approximately 12308 South Pony Express Rd.
(Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned CR. The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan
be approved to allow for the redevelopment of the property into three apartment
buildings, including mixed use buildings.

A Development Agreement was approved by the City Council on May 5, 2015 allowing for a
mixed use development on the subject property, and the property directly south of the
subject site. The Development Agreement allowed for up to 835 dwelling units and
required at least 75,000 square feet of commercial space. This mixed use development will
encompass 15.14 acres total and when complete will include 834 dwelling units and 75,884
square feet of commercial space. Phase one of the development received site plan
approval in 2018 and is currently under construction.




TriView Apartments Phase II                                          App. # SPR-022-2021
Site Plan Request                              1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Community
Commercial land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the CR zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CR zone is to
“provide areas where a combination of destination oriented business, retail commercial,
entertainment, and related uses may be established, maintained and protected to serve both
residents and nonresidents of the city. Typical uses in this zone include large scale, master
planned commercial centers with outlying commercial pads, big box stores, and offices.” The CR
zone abuts on the south and west. The CI (Interchange Commercial) zone abuts on the
west, and the CBP (Business/Manufacturing Park) zone abuts on the north. To the east is I-
15.

Site Plan Layout. The property includes three buildings (Exhibit E). For ease of reference
each building is referred as Buildings A, B, and C. The buildings run north to south on the
site and are surrounded by parking and drive aisles.




TriView Apartments Phase II                                          App. # SPR-022-2021
Site Plan Request                             2
Building A is located on the north side of the development, adjacent to 12300 South.
Building A will be a mixed use building with 18,418 square feet of retail space facing 12300
South. This space will be two stories, wherein the remainder of the building will contain 127
apartment units and be six stories in height. The building is a podium structure, meaning it
is built on top of a parking garage. The ground floor will contain the retail space and 107
structured parking spaces.

Building B is located in the middle of the development and will be entirely residential, with
191 apartment units. The structure is also six stories tall, with the ground floor
encompassing 125 structured parking spaces.

Building C is located on the south end of the development, adjacent to Phase 1. Building C
will include 36,332 square feet of commercial space. This includes a dog spa area on the
ground floor equaling 8,024 square feet. It also includes a weekly short term rental area on
floors 3 and 4, with an associated fitness center. There will be 23 weekly rental units in the
building. The number of apartment units in Building C equals 82. What distinguished the 23
weekly rental units and the 82 apartment units between the commercial and residential
classification is length of the rentals. The weekly rentals are considered short term rentals,
similar to a hotel, wherein the apartment units will have long term rentals and considered
permanent housing. There are also 71 parking spaces on the ground floor.

Circulation. The property includes four ingress and egress point onto public roads, with an
additional internal access point to the Phase 1 property to the south. Three of the ingress
and egress points exit to the east and onto Pony Express Road. The fourth ingress and
egress point is to Lone Peak Parkway (Exhibit F). The access road to Lone Peak Parkway has
been under close review given the sharp turn located in the roadway. The applicant has
proposed a connection point which includes right and left turns into the development, but
limits exiting from the development to a right turn only. A condition of approval has been
included which stipulates that the design is conditionally approved. The construction
drawings will need to be altered to account for potential future removal of the left turn
movement into the development and installation of a median if the intersection fails.

A Traffic Impact Study has been submitted for the development (Exhibit G). The study
highlights the existing traffic issues at the Lone Peak Parkway and 12300 South
intersection. Traffic from this intersection often backs up to the proposed access point into
the development on Lone Peak Parkway. The study anticipates with no changes to the
intersection, the new access point would operate at a Level of Service F. The City plans on
realigning Lone Peak Parkway in the next few years, which will help with the overall traffic
concerns in the area. In addition, Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) has initiated
a corridor study to evaluate improvement needs at the intersection of Lone Peak Parkway
and 12300 South. Construction timelines for the TriView Phase II development anticipate
the first building opening up in 2022 and the other two buildings opening up in 2023.



TriView Apartments Phase II                                          App. # SPR-022-2021
Site Plan Request                             3
Third Party Approvals. The site design utilizes property that will require several approvals by
third parties. The access road to Lone Peak Parkway will cross both the Rocky Mountain
Power corridor and the Jordan and Salt Lake Canal. Approvals from Rocky Mountain Power
and Salt Lake City Public Utilities for these crossing are required. Without the approvals the
access road to Lone Peak Parkway cannot be developed. This would create substantial
ingress and egress concerns for the development and would require additional Site Plan
review.

The applicant plans on discharging the storm water into the adjacent Willow Creek.
Approval from Salt Lake County Flood Control is required for this storm drain discharge.
Without approval, the drainage plan for the development would have to be redesigned.

There is a discrepancy in the western property line location in the records provided by the
applicant and Salt Lake City. This discrepancy will have to be resolved by the two property
owners and proof of resolution provided to the City. If the resolution does not match
property line shown by the applicant in the Site Plan drawings, modifications to the Site
Plan will be required.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The development contains two types of open space (Exhibit
H). The first is exterior landscaping area, which includes 17% of the overall site, or 62,829
square feet. The second is amenity spaces, primarily located on rooftop decks. These
amenity spaces equal 8% of the site, or 31,489 square feet. The total landscaping amount
for the property is 25%. The DCMC requires a minimum of 30%. The Development
Agreement allows for a landscaping coverage of 20%, similar to commercial developments.
It also allows amenity space to be counted towards the landscaping percentages. The
development has a lot coverage of 43%. The DCMC allows 60% of a property to be covered
in buildings.

Each building has at least one amenity deck. The Building A amenity deck includes a
swimming pool, spa, outdoor bbq, fire pit, seating areas, and pergola. Building B includes
two amenity decks with a spa, fire pit, outdoor bbq, and seating areas. The amenity deck
for Building C includes a spa, fire pit, outdoor bbq, and seating areas. Each building also
includes indoor amenity space for gathering areas and exercise rooms.

Parking. The Development Agreement for TriView modifies the parking standards for the
development. The minimum parking for the property is 1.71 spaces per dwelling unit
(Exhibit E). With 400 dwelling units, the property is required to have 684 parking stalls. The
site has 703 stalls, which equals 1.76 stalls per dwelling unit. The parking structures contain
303 parking stalls, with the rest of the parking provided by surface stalls. The site also
contains several carports, and 122 of the surface stalls are covered.

Architecture. The CR zone limits building height to 45-feet, however, the Development
Agreement allows a total building height of 70-feet. The buildings are all designed to be 68-



TriView Apartments Phase II                                           App. # SPR-022-2021
Site Plan Request                              4
feet 9-inches at the roof line (Exhibit I). The commercial component of Building A will be 32-
feet tall. The development agreement also approved several changes to architectural
standards. Façade variations will not be required, per the Development Agreement. The
applicant has provided variations with balconies, decks, wall projections, windows, and
material changes. The rooflines do not have to meet variation standards, but does have a
variety of parapet wall heights. The buildings will not front onto open space, but rather
have the open space on the interior via amenity decks, per the allowances in the
Development Agreement.

The buildings will have to meet material standards found in the DCMC. The proposed
contemporary structures will have brick, fiber composite siding, metal composite panels,
wood finish siding, hardi-board panels, architectural precast concrete, and stucco
materials. The stucco material is the only secondary material on the building will not
exceed 25% of each façade face, as required in DCMC.

Lighting. The property will utilize a variety of lighting types, including pole lights in the
parking lot, bollards along the pedestrian walkways, and building mounted lights at entry
ways. In addition, the amenity decks will also contain string lights above seating areas. The
property complies with the maximum foot candles levels at property lines, with no more
than 0.2 foot candles at the property lines. The plans will need to be amended to verify the
height of the pole lights and the bollards.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request is found in Sections 9-5-
090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

         E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site
             plan:
             1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
                approved.
             2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
                not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
                building materials.
             3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
                general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
             4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
             5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
                Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage,
                and utilities concerns.




TriView Apartments Phase II                                                  App. # SPR-022-2021
Site Plan Request                                   5
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan submission. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC in working with the
Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, has completed their review of the
geotechnical and geologic hazards report submitted as a part of the Site Plan. Comments
from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds the application will comply with the DCMC once the specific conditions of
approval listed below have been met. Staff recommends the Planning Commission review
the request, receive public comment, and conditionally approve the application subject to
the applicant complying with the specific and general conditions of approval. Approval is
based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval as listed within the staff
report. Staff further recommends requiring the completion of the Specific Conditions of
Approval (listed as items 1 through 10 below) before the Site Plan approval becomes
effective. The Site Plan shall not be considered approved until these 10 conditions are met
and the Zoning Administrator has issued a notice of Site Plan approval. The effective date
of the Site Plan approval shall be the date on the Zoning Administrator’s notice of Site Plan
approval.

A. Specific Conditions of Approval
       1.      The Site Plan shall not be considered approved until the specific conditions of
               approval are met and the Zoning Administrator has issued a notice of Site
               Plan approval.




TriView Apartments Phase II                                          App. # SPR-022-2021
Site Plan Request                             6
         2.       Provide a recorded shared parking agreement for the entire property
                  between the different parcels, including Phase 1.
         3.       Provide a recorded cross access easement for the entire property between
                  the different parcels, including Phase 1.
         4.       Provide proof of easement vacation, relocation, or obtain an easement
                  release approval in order to construct Building B over Easement 22 shown on
                  the Alta Survey.
         5.       Obtain 3rd Party approval Salt Lake City Public Utilities for the Jordan and
                  Salt Lake Canal access and waterline canal crossing.
         6.       Obtain 3rd Party approval from Rocky Mountain Power for the access
                  crossing the power corridor.
         7.       Obtain permit from Salt Lake County Flood Control for the storm drain
                  discharge to Willow Creek.
         8.       Provide proof of the resolution on the property line dispute between the
                  property owners and Salt Lake City.
         9.       Address the outstanding redlines on the photometric lighting plans listed in
                  Exhibit A of this report.
         10.      The connection of access to Lone Peak Parkway is conditionally approved.
                  The construction drawings shall show a future phase median in Lone Peak
                  Parkway to prevent left turn movements in and out of the site if the
                  intersection fails without the median. Approval of the median design as a
                  future phase shall be required from the Draper City Engineering Division
                  prior to the Zoning Administrator issuing a notice of Site Plan approval. It
                  shall be the responsibility of the applicant to install the future phase median
                  and associated improvements within 45 days upon written notice by the
                  Draper City Engineer. The applicant shall be required to pay a bond for the
                  future phase median and improvements prior to the issuance of a land
                  disturbance permit. The function of connection will be evaluated and
                  potential future modification by the applicant to modify access movements
                  maybe required until the city relocates Lone Peak Parkway.

B. General Conditions of Approval
      1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
             Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
             site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
      2.     That all requirements of the geologic hazard and geotechnical report are
             satisfied throughout the development of the site and the construction of all
             buildings on the site.
      3.     Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
             twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of
             thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be designed
             and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The
             surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall



TriView Apartments Phase II                                             App. # SPR-022-2021
Site Plan Request                                7
                  have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a
                  maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits
                  being issued.
         4.       Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary
                  Fire Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the
                  Fire Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time
                  during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department
                  Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.
         5.       No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation
                  and testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
                  combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
         6.       Obtain a letter from the structural engineer that states the projected
                  liquefaction induced settlement is tolerable for life safety.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.       The applicant acknowledges it has not met the specific conditions of
                  approval.
         2.       The application will meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City
                  Municipal Code, including Section 9-5-090(E), once the specific conditions of
                  approval have been met.
         3.       The application complies with the approved Smith/Miller Development
                  Agreement.
         4.       The Planning Commission has agreed to approve the application with
                  conditions (as outlined above) subject to the applicant complying with the
                  specific conditions of approval.
         5.       The final effective date of the Planning Commission’s site plan approval will
                  be when the Zoning Administrator confirms the applicant has complied with
                  the specific conditions of approval.
         6.       The applicant will comply with the general conditions of approval throughout
                  the construction of the project.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval –
I move that we conditionally approve the Site Plan based on the findings and subject to the
specific and general conditions listed within the Staff Report dated July 13, 2021, as
requested by Cara Hicks, representing Triago Ventures for TriView Apartments Phase II Site
Plan, application SPR-022-2021. The Site Plan approval shall become effective upon a
written notice from the Zoning Administrator that the specific conditions of approval have
been met. The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to determine if the specific
conditions of approval have been met and issue final notice of approval. If the conditions



TriView Apartments Phase II                                            App. # SPR-022-2021
Site Plan Request                                8
are not met, the Site Plan shall not be deemed approved and any changes to the site plan
must be brought back to the Planning Commission for additional review and approval.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval–
I move that we conditionally approve the Site Plan based on the findings and subject to the
specific and general conditions listed within the Staff Report dated July 13, 2021, and as
modified by the findings and conditions below, as requested by Cara Hicks, representing
Triago Ventures for TriView Apartments Phase II Site Plan, application SPR-022-2021. The
Site Plan approval shall become effective upon a written notice from the Zoning
Administrator that the specific conditions of approval have been met. The Zoning
Administrator shall have the authority to determine if the specific conditions of approval
have been met and issue final notice of approval. If the conditions are not met, the Site
Plan shall not be deemed approved and any changes to the site plan must be brought back
to the Planning Commission for additional review and approval

         1. List any additional findings and specific conditions…
         2. List any additional findings and general conditions…




TriView Apartments Phase II                                         App. # SPR-022-2021
Site Plan Request                              9
                    DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                                                                                                   Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                       Digitally signed by Scott Cooley
Scott Cooley           Date: 2021.07.16 11:37:30
                       -06'00'
                                                                                                   DN: C=US,

                                                                     Jennifer Jastremsky E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                                                                                         O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,

__________________________________                                   __________________________________
                                                                                                   CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                   Date: 2021.07.15 12:15:49-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                  Draper City Planning Division



                                                                     Mike   Barker
                       Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                       DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,                                       Digitally signed by Mike Barker
Don Buckley
__________________________________
                       O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire
                       Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                       Date: 2021.07.15 12:20:29-06'00'              __________________________________
                                                                                                   Date: 2021.07.15 13:51:06 -06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                          Draper City Legal Counsel

                       Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                       DN: C=US,
                       E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,
 Keith Collier         O=Draper City, OU=Building
                       Official, CN=Keith Collier
__________________________________
                       Date: 2021.07.15 13:33:14-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




TriView Apartments Phase II                                                                          App. # SPR-022-2021
Site Plan Request                                               10
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     The proposed plans comply with the Smith/Miller Development Agreement
              entered into on May 6, 2015.
       2.     Address the outstanding redlines on the lighting plans.
              a. How tall are the bollards and light poles? There are restrictions to allowed
                 height. DCMC Section 9-32-030(D)(7) and 9-22-040(F)(7).

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     Drawings are to be stamped and signed by a P.E. registered in Utah per Draper
              City Municipal Code (DCMC) 9-5-090(D)(1)(d).
       2.     Third party approval is required of the geotechnical and geologic hazards
              report prior to site plan approval, per DCMC 9-5-090(D)(1)(g).
       3.     Traffic Impact Study. – Connection to Lone Peak Parkway is still being evaluated.
              Acceptable connection alignment will be a condition of approval and is required
              prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit.
       4.     Salt Lake County Flood Control approval is required for storm water discharge
              to Willow Creek. Approval may be a letter or the issued Permit. Approval
              remains outstanding and is required prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance
              Permit.
       5.     Salt Lake City Public Utilities approval is required for the crossing of the Jordan
              and Salt Lake Canal of the private access and waterline. Approval may be a
              letter or the issued permit. Approval remains outstanding and is required prior
              to issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit.
       6.     *Salt Lake City Public Utilities has indicated during coordination discussions
              that there are property boundary disputes between ownership on the east
              bank of the canal. The city will not become involved in resolving the dispute.
              The site plan will not be approved until the boundary dispute is settled. The
              applicant should contact Karryn Greenleaf at Salt Lake City Public Utilities for
              additional information.*
       7.     Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior
              to construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering
              Division and is required prior to Building Permit issuance. Comment is
              informational and no additional action is required prior to site plan approval.
       8.      Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit
               obtained through the Engineering Division. Comment is informational and no
               additional action is required prior to site plan approval.

       9.      Verify grading plan requires compliance to the geotechnical / geologic hazard
               report.
       10.     Pipeline material for diameters of 12-inch and larger is required to be Ductile
               Iron Class 52 (or Class 350).
       11.     Meters and meter vaults are required to be per Draper City Standard Details
               (notes on utility page(s) indicate APWA).
       12.     Verify all 10-inch and smaller diameter waterline pipe is C900 DR14 Class 305
               material.
       13.     Add two valves, one on each side of the canal, at the four foot depth (in
               addition to the two shown at the casing pipe). See redlines.
       14.     Width of Jordan and Salt Lake Canal property shown on Alta survey differs
               from county records.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

       1.      Based substantially in and on reliance of the technical documentation and
               assurances provided by GSH, including their opinions and conclusions, it is
               TG’s opinion that GSH has adequately addressed geotechnical parameters at
               the site, consistent with concerns for public health, safety, welfare,
               reasonable professional standards of practice and the Draper City’s Geologic
               Hazards Ordinance (Draper City, 2010).
       2.      A liquefaction study was completed for the subject site. GSH concluded that
               the site is susceptible to 0.75 inches of liquefaction induced settlement. The
               site is not susceptible to liquefaction induced lateral spread.
       3.      Consider the GSH submittals acceptable from a geotechnical engineering
               perspective.
       4.      In accordance with Section 9-19-120 of the Draper City Geologic Hazard
               Ordinance, have the property owner of the parcel record, prior to the
               approval of any development on the property, a disclosure and
               acknowledgment form running with the land indicating the site is within a
               geologic hazard study area and found to be susceptible to liquefaction.
       5.      Obtain a letter from the structural engineer that states the projected
               liquefaction induced settlement is tolerable for life safety.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
               twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of
               thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be designed
      and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The
      surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
      have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a
      maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits
      being issued.
2.    Fire Hydrants are required. Hydrants are required for this project. They shall
      be protected with bollards if susceptible to vehicle damage. Each building
      needs 4 hydrants at least one on each corner. The required fire flow for each
      building is 4000gpm and this is after a 50% reduction for fire sprinklers.
3.    Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary
      Fire Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the
      Fire Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time
      during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department
      Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.
4.    No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation
      and testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
      combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
5.    Fire Department Connection Location. The FDC shall be on the street side of
      each building and shall be located and arranged so that hose lines can be
      readily and conveniently attached to the inlets without interference from any
      nearby objects including buildings, fences, posts, or other fire department
      connections.
6.    Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler
      shop drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
      don.buckley@draperutah.gov . A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
      cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET
      level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-
      in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL
      FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE
      SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
7.    Standpipes Required. These buildings will be required to have standpipes.
      This standpipe will be required to be pressure tested and a Contractor
      Certificate of Completion will be required to be filled out.
8.    Low Frequency Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop
      drawings are to be sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at
      don.buckley@draperutah.gov . A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
      cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level
      III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd
      PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
9.    Emergency Responder Radio Coverage Required. Emergency responder
      radio coverage shall be provided in accordance with the IFC.
10.   Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System May Be Required. An
      emergency voice/alarm communication system shall be provided in
      accordance with the IFC.
11.   Two-way communication will be Required. As per Section 1009.8 in the 2015
      IFC.
12.   Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted
      to exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
      exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the
      top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General
      Contractor. See attached information form.
13.   2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
      serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to
      be located in a conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and
      immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or
      not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not
      more than five (5) feet above the floor.
14.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
      address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
      property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
15.   Fire is requiring that an access to Lone Peak Parkway be installed to meet the
      requirements of item one of the fire review. Once the realignment of Lone
      Peak Parkway is complete the second access can be extended to match the
      realignment.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                            BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GENERAL NOTES
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                 WITNESS CORNER IN PONY EXPRESS ROAD
              R        @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.   ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                 TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 25,
                       PRIOR TO THE
Know what's below.
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.
                                                 TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,
                                                 SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN

                                                 ELEVATION = 4427.34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALL IMPROVEMENTS MUST COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEE LANDSCAPE/ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR CONCRETE MATERIAL, COLOR, FINISH, AND SCORE PATTERNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ENSIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THROUGHOUT SITE.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.   ALL PAVEMENT MARKINGS SHALL CONFORM TO THE LATEST EDITION OF THE M.U.T.C.D. (MANUAL ON UNIFORM           SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES).                                                                                45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12300 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sandy, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.   ALL SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS DISTURBED BY CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE RESTORED OR REPLACED,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INCLUDING TREES AND DECORATIVE SHRUBS, SOD, FENCES, WALLS AND STRUCTURES, WHETHER OR NOT                 Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THEY ARE SPECIFICALLY SHOWN ON THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LAYTON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.   NOTIFY ENGINEER OF ANY DISCREPANCIES IN DESIGN OR STAKING BEFORE PLACING CONCRETE OR ASPHALT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26' FIRE LANE ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.   THE CONTRACTOR IS TO PROTECT AND PRESERVE ALL EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, AND SIGNS, ETC.




                                                                                                                                                   x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON THESE PLANS.                                                                   TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 435.843.3590




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.   WALLS, LANDSCAPING, AND OTHER SCREENING SHALL BE USED AROUND GENERATORS, GROUND EQUIPMENT,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AND UTILITY EQUIPMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 435.865.1453




                                                                                                                                                   x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RICHFIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 435.896.2983




                                                                                                                                                   x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        26' FIRE LANE ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FOR:




                                                                                                                                                   x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPOSED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRIAGO VENTURES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           APARTMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          438W 12300S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BLDG. 'A'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12358 S. PONY EXPRESS RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CARA HICKS




                                                                                                                                                   x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PHONE: 801-556-8030




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12358, 12426 & 12498 S. LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITE SUMMARY TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DESCRIPTION           AREA (SF)       PERCENTAGE




                                                                                                                                                   x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IMPERVIOUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   297,462             83%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SURFACES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAVEMENT      170,784             47%




                                                                                                                                                   x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BLDG. FOOTPRINT       126,678             43%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ACCE   SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     26' FIRE LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OPEN SPACE                  94,318             26%
                                                                                                                                                                                   ACCESS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXT. LANDSCAPE        62,829             17%
                                                                       PR




                                                                                                                                                                   26' FIRE LANE
                                                                        OP (FU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXT. AMENITY        31,489             8%
                                                                                                                                                   ONLY
                                                                          OS TU (P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PONY EXCPSTRRE
                                                                            ED RE UBL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  360,291 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL SITE                                     100%
                                                                              LO ALIC RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.27 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (PUBLI
                                                                                NE IG AD)
                                                                                  PE NME




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRI-VIEW
                                                                                     AK N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ESS ROAD
                                                                                       PA T)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPOSED                                                                                                                                                                      PARKING DATA TABLE
                                                                                         RK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APARTMENT
                                                                                            WA




                                                                                                            (EXISTING ALIGNMENT)
                                                                                                            LONE PEAK PARKWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BLDG. 'B'                                                                                                                                                                EXTERIOR STANDARD STALLS        274
                                                                                            Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12426 S. PONY EXPRESS RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                   (PUBLIC ROAD)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HANDICAP-ACCESSIBLE STALLS
                                                                                                 90°'




                                                                                                                                                               x              x                 x

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXTERIOR VAN-ACCESSIBLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JORDAN AND SALT LAKE CANA
                                                                                                                                                                       POWER CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                       ROCKY MOUNTAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  26' FIRE LANE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COVERED PARKING STALLS          114
                                                                                                                                                       x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXTERIOR COVERED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HANDICAP-ACCESSIBLE STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL EXTERIOR STALLS           400


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERIOR STALLS, BLDG A         107
                                                                                                                                                       x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERIOR STALLS, BLDG B         125

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERIOR STALLS, BLDG C         71




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL INTERIOR STALLS           303
                                                                                                                                                           x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRAND TOTAL    703




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         x
                                                                                                                                                           x
                                                                                                            LONE PEAK PARKWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             x
                                                                                                                                                           x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      26' FIRE LANE
                                                                                                                                (PUBLIC ROAD)




                                                                                                                                                                   WILLOW CREEK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S   I ONA L ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ES                       I
                                                                                                                                                       x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         No. 10809970-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RILEY FORD
                                                                                                                                                       x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7 / 7 / 21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AT                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E O F UT
                                                                                                                                                       x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   APARTMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BLDG. 'C'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E ACC
                                                                                                                                                   x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12498 S. PONY EXPRESS RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E LAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INTERSTATE 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               26' FIR
                                                                                                                                                   x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OVERALL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     x
                                                                                                                                                                                                            x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST PHASE 1
                                                                                                                                x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         x
                                                                                                                                                                                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT NUMBER            PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8153                       7/7/21
                                                                                                                  x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         x
                                                                                                                                                                                                    x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWN BY                  CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A.ROBERTS                  R.FORD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE                       PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R.FORD
                                                                                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             x
                                                                                                                                                                                            x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   80              0          40       80               160


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HORZ: 1 inch = 80 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C-200
                                                                      BENCHMARK
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                           WITNESS CORNER IN PONY EXPRESS ROAD
              R        @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                                                           TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 25,
                       PRIOR TO THE
Know what's below.
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.
                                                           TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,
                                                           SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN

                                                           ELEVATION = 4427.34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C-XX1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ENSIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOTE:                                                                                                                                          Sandy, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ALL WORK IN RIGHT OF WAY TO BE CONSTRUCTED PER DRAPER CITY                                                                                     Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                 C-XX2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12300 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C-XX3
                                                                                                     x                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KEY MAP          CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOT TO SCALE     Phone: 435.865.1453




                                                                                                                                                                                                            21.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GENERAL NOTES                                                                                           Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.   ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.   ALL IMPROVEMENTS MUST COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  84.9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               26.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7                                                                                                                                  3.   SEE LANDSCAPE/ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR CONCRETE MATERIAL, COLOR, FINISH, AND SCORE PATTERNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRIAGO VENTURES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           x
                                                                                                                                                               6.6                                                                                                                 16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THROUGHOUT SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          438W 12300S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.   ALL PAVEMENT MARKINGS SHALL CONFORM TO THE LATEST EDITION OF THE M.U.T.C.D. (MANUAL ON UNIFORM    DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                      9                                                                                                                                                                                                  22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES).                                                                         CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                     8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CARA HICKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.   ALL SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS DISTURBED BY CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE RESTORED OR REPLACED,                 PHONE: 801-556-8030
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INCLUDING TREES AND DECORATIVE SHRUBS, SOD, FENCES, WALLS AND STRUCTURES, WHETHER OR NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THEY ARE SPECIFICALLY SHOWN ON THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12358, 12426 & 12498 S. LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  x
                                                                                                                                      2.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4                                                                                                                                                                                               22                                                                                                                                 6.   NOTIFY ENGINEER OF ANY DISCREPANCIES IN DESIGN OR STAKING BEFORE PLACING CONCRETE OR ASPHALT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          122.2'
                                                                                                                                                                                 16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.   THE CONTRACTOR IS TO PROTECT AND PRESERVE ALL EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, AND SIGNS, ETC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON THESE PLANS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.8'
                                                                                                                                                                                 16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.   WALLS, LANDSCAPING, AND OTHER SCREENING SHALL BE USED AROUND GENERATORS, GROUND EQUIPMENT,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                                                                              BEGIN DOUBLE-YELLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND UTILITY EQUIPMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25                                                                                  CENTER STRIPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE                        SCOPE OF WORK:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.0'                                                                                                                                       30          0        15         30         60         PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR REFERENCED, THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DETAILS NOTED, AND/OR AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
                                                                                                                                                                                           9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ( IN FEET )                             1    DRAINAGE CURB OPENING PER DETAIL 14/C-701




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2    LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT DRAINAGE AREA (SEE GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRI-VIEW
                                                                                                                                                       22.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3    NOT USED

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4” THICK CONCRETE SIDEWALK PER APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 231 AND SPECIFICATIONS. REFER TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                               9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PONY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR FINISHES, JOINT PATTERNS, ETC.
                                                                                                         JORDAN AND SALT LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                    8.0'                 26.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5    SIDEWALK WITH CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 8/C-700.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXPR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6    SIDEWALK PER DRAPER CITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS PER DETAIL ST-12.
                                                                                                                                                                                               18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7    30” CURB AND GUTTER PER DRAPER CITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS PER DETAIL ST-10.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ESS R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8    24” COLLECTION CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 1/C-700.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9    24” REVERSE PAN CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 2/C-700.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   x
                                                                                                                                                               COVERED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OAD
                                                                                                                                                                PARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10   TRANSITION BETWEEN COLLECTION CURB AND GUTTER AND REVERSE PAN CURB AND GUTTER.
                                                                                                                                             2.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    320.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INSTALL RADIUS DRIVE APPROACH PER DRAPER CITY STANDARD DETAIL ST-09 (SEE SHEET C-701).
                                      POWER CORRIDOR
                                      ROCKY MOUNTAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11   SIDEWALK MUST BE THICKENED FOR COMMERCIAL APPROACH PER DETAIL ST-09.
                                                                                                               KE CANAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED APARTMENT BLDG. 'A'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HANDICAP ACCESS RAMP PER APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 235 WITH DETECTABLE WARNING SURFACE PER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING EDGE OF ASPHALT                                                             APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 238 AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                  16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21.6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22                                                                                                                 ON-SITE HANDICAP ACCESS RAMP PER DETAIL 6/C-700 WITH DETECTABLE WARNING SURFACE PER APWA
                                                                                                                                                               8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13   STANDARD PLAN NO. 238 AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                      16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXISTING EDGE                                                                                                                                      14   WHITE CROSSWALK MARKING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15   12" WIDE SOLID WHITE STOP BAR PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16   PAINTED ADA SYMBOL AND ASSOCIATED HATCHING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                        9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17   "HANDICAP PARKING" SIGN PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18   "STOP" SIGN PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S   I ONA L ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19   3' CONCRETE WATERWAY PER APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 211 AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       185.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ES                       I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOT USED.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         No. 10809970-2202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       21   NOT USED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RILEY FORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7 / 7 / 21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22   INSTALL NEW ASPHALT ON SAWCUT EDGE PER CITY STANDARD PLAN #ST-15 AND #ST-19.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AT                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCRETE WHEEL STOP. WHEEL STOP TO BE PAINTED SAFETY YELLOW WHERE ABUTS PEDESTRIAN WALK                                E O F UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WAY PER DETAIL 5/C-700 TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              24.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0'                                                                                                                                       24   FLARED END DRIVE APPROACH PER DRAPER CITY DETAIL ST-7 AND ST-8.




                                                                                                                                                    2.5'                                                            9                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                         18

                                                                                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22.0'                              9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         49.6'




                                                                                  BOX CULVERT (SEE                            X
                                                                                                                                  X

                                                                                                                                                                                      12                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DOUBLE-YELLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CENTER STRIPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SITE PLAN
                                                                                     CV DRAWINGS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          26.0'




                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   61.9'




                                                                                                                                                                                               9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                   6.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8                                                                                                                                                                                           18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18.0'




                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9.0'                                                 10
                                                                                     27.0'




                                                                                                                                                                 8                                                      12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT NUMBER            PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8153                       7/7/21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                      12           14                                                             9          9.0'                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10                                                                                                COVERED
                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWN BY                  CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10                                                                                                                                                                                 PARKING                                                                                       SEE DRAWING C-201                                                                                                                                             A.ROBERTS                  R.FORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R.FORD



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C-201
                                                                 BENCHMARK
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                      WITNESS CORNER IN PONY EXPRESS ROAD
                       @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                             R


                                                      TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 25,
                       PRIOR TO THE
Know what's below.
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.
                                                      TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,
                                                      SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN

                                                      ELEVATION = 4427.34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALL WORK IN RIGHT OF WAY TO BE CONSTRUCTED PER DRAPER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C-XX1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENSIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SEE DRAWING C-201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sandy, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C-XX2                            Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                                                                                                                                                             18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING EDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14.6'                 OF ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                       LAYTON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Phone: 801.547.1100
                                  x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9                                                                               10                                 11
                                                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                                                                                  X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14                                                                                                                9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DOUBLE-YELLOW                                                                                                                                                                Phone: 435.843.3590




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CENTER STRIPING                                                                                                                             C-XX3
                                                                              4                                                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KEY MAP          CEDAR CITY




                                                                                                                6.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOT TO SCALE     Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22
                                  x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9                                  18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RICHFIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GENERAL NOTES




                                                                                                                 27.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8                                                                                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12        14                                                                                      9             9.0'                                                                 10                                                                                                COVERED
                                                                                           8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.    ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10                                                                                                                                                                                     19                          PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18                                                                                                                                  COVERED                                                                    COVERED                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.    ALL IMPROVEMENTS MUST COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
                            18                                                                                                                                                          3.1'                                                                                                                                                           19
                                      ONLY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARKING




                                                                                                                   6.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12                                                                                                                            PARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COVERED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.    SEE LANDSCAPE/ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR CONCRETE MATERIAL, COLOR, FINISH, AND SCORE PATTERNS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   x
                                                                                                                                                   X
                                                                                                                                                                                    X                                10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THROUGHOUT SITE.                                                                                  TRIAGO VENTURES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18
                                                                                                   4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          438W 12300S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                 15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.    ALL PAVEMENT MARKINGS SHALL CONFORM TO THE LATEST EDITION OF THE M.U.T.C.D. (MANUAL ON UNIFORM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES).                                                                         CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20.2'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CARA HICKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.    ALL SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS DISTURBED BY CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE RESTORED OR REPLACED,                 PHONE: 801-556-8030




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INCLUDING TREES AND DECORATIVE SHRUBS, SOD, FENCES, WALLS AND STRUCTURES, WHETHER OR NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7                                                                                                THEY ARE SPECIFICALLY SHOWN ON THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12358, 12426 & 12498 S. LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0'                                                                                                                        6.    NOTIFY ENGINEER OF ANY DISCREPANCIES IN DESIGN OR STAKING BEFORE PLACING CONCRETE OR ASPHALT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  206.8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                              9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING CURB                 7.    THE CONTRACTOR IS TO PROTECT AND PRESERVE ALL EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, AND SIGNS, ETC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AND GUTTER                          UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON THESE PLANS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.    WALLS, LANDSCAPING, AND OTHER SCREENING SHALL BE USED AROUND GENERATORS, GROUND EQUIPMENT,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND UTILITY EQUIPMENT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCOPE OF WORK:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR REFERENCED, THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15.3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28.0'                                                                          DETAILS NOTED, AND/OR AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPOSED APARTMENT BLDG. 'B'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1    DRAINAGE CURB OPENING PER DETAIL 14/C-701
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2    LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT DRAINAGE AREA (SEE GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TRI-VIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                               3.1'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3    NOT USED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   183.1'
        LONE PEAK PARKWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               24.2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4” THICK CONCRETE SIDEWALK PER APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 231 AND SPECIFICATIONS. REFER TO

                                                                                                                                                       JORDAN AND SALT LAKE CANAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10                                                   10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4    ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR FINISHES, JOINT PATTERNS, ETC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS ROAD
                                             x           x                        x                                       x        x   x                                                                                                                                                             7.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5    SIDEWALK WITH CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 8/C-700.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6    SIDEWALK PER DRAPER CITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS PER DETAIL ST-12.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26.0'                        18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18.0'
                                                                                               POWER CORRIDOR
                                                                                               ROCKY MOUNTAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7    30” CURB AND GUTTER PER DRAPER CITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS PER DETAIL ST-10.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8    24” COLLECTION CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 1/C-700.
                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19                                                                                                                                                                                      10                                                                                                                                      3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9    24” REVERSE PAN CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 2/C-700.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10   TRANSITION BETWEEN COLLECTION CURB AND GUTTER AND REVERSE PAN CURB AND GUTTER.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INSTALL RADIUS DRIVE APPROACH PER DRAPER CITY STANDARD DETAIL ST-09 (SEE SHEET C-701).




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11   SIDEWALK MUST BE THICKENED FOR COMMERCIAL APPROACH PER DETAIL ST-09.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9                                                                                                                               7.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HANDICAP ACCESS RAMP PER APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 235 WITH DETECTABLE WARNING SURFACE PER
                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                  x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 238 AND SPECIFICATIONS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   386.1'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24.9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ON-SITE HANDICAP ACCESS RAMP PER DETAIL 6/C-700 WITH DETECTABLE WARNING SURFACE PER APWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.1'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DOUBLE-YELLOW                    13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COVERED                                                                                                                                                                                                   CENTER STRIPING                       STANDARD PLAN NO. 238 AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         23                                                                                                                                                                                                              14   WHITE CROSSWALK MARKING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15   12" WIDE SOLID WHITE STOP BAR PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22
                                                                                                                                                                                                  x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X                                                            9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.0'                                                                                               16   PAINTED ADA SYMBOL AND ASSOCIATED HATCHING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4                           10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9                                                                                                                                                        8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   17   "HANDICAP PARKING" SIGN PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COVERED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18   "STOP" SIGN PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARKING                                                     4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S   I ONA L ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         19   3' CONCRETE WATERWAY PER APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 211 AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ES                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9.0'
                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOT USED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9                                                               66.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           No. 10809970-2202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8                                                                                                                                                                                          10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21   NOT USED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RILEY FORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7 / 7 / 21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22   INSTALL NEW ASPHALT ON SAWCUT EDGE PER CITY STANDARD PLAN #ST-15 AND #ST-19.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24.2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E O F UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 23                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONCRETE WHEEL STOP. WHEEL STOP TO BE PAINTED SAFETY YELLOW WHERE ABUTS PEDESTRIAN WALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WAY PER DETAIL 5/C-700 TYP.
                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12                                                                                                                                                                    18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.6'                      10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18.0'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FLARED END DRIVE APPROACH PER DRAPER CITY DETAIL ST-7 AND ST-8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  26.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                               9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8
                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10                                                                                                                                                                             COVERED                                                                                                                                                            7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23                                                                                                        3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12
                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                              HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                 23.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                 30                   0           15              30                          60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT NUMBER            PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8153                       7/7/21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY                  CHECKED BY
                                                                          ( IN FEET )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8                                                                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                                                                                                                         19                 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A.ROBERTS                  R.FORD
                                                                       HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11
                                        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12
                                                                                                                                           x                                                                      3.1'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10                                       26.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R.FORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10                                     12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C-202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9                                                              18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14

                       SEE DRAWING C-202                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SEE DRAWING C-203
                                                                          BENCHMARK
                           CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                               WITNESS CORNER IN PONY EXPRESS ROAD
                  R        @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                                                               TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 25,
                           PRIOR TO THE
    Know what's below.
                           COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
       Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.
                                                               TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,
                                                               SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN

                                                               ELEVATION = 4427.34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ALL WORK IN RIGHT OF WAY TO BE CONSTRUCTED PER DRAPER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C-XX1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ENSIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEE DRAWING C-202                                                                                                                                                                                                    45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sandy, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                            9                                                                                                                                    9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Phone: 801.255.0529
        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C-XX2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phone: 801.547.1100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               24.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12                                                                                                                                                               9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOOELE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24.2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     14                                                                                                                                                                                 23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPOSED APARTMENT                                                        6                                                                                                                                                                                          C-XX3
        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     24.0'                  18.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KEY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                            10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLDG. 'B'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CEDAR CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOT TO SCALE     Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                    6.0'                                                                                            3.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.0'
                                                                                                                                                             4.6'                                                                    1                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RICHFIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                    26.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.0'                                  2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.    ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COVERED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.   ALL IMPROVEMENTS MUST COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.   SEE LANDSCAPE/ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR CONCRETE MATERIAL, COLOR, FINISH, AND SCORE PATTERNS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     23                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THROUGHOUT SITE.                                                                                  TRIAGO VENTURES
                                                                                                                                                                                                            14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    438W 12300S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.   ALL PAVEMENT MARKINGS SHALL CONFORM TO THE LATEST EDITION OF THE M.U.T.C.D. (MANUAL ON UNIFORM    DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DOUBLE-YELLOW                                   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES).                                                                         CONTACT:
        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                  10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CENTER STRIPING                                                                                                                                   CARA HICKS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1                 8                                                                                                                                                                         3.0'                                                                                                         5.   ALL SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS DISTURBED BY CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE RESTORED OR REPLACED,                 PHONE: 801-556-8030




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INCLUDING TREES AND DECORATIVE SHRUBS, SOD, FENCES, WALLS AND STRUCTURES, WHETHER OR NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THEY ARE SPECIFICALLY SHOWN ON THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12358, 12426 & 12498 S. LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                              9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.   NOTIFY ENGINEER OF ANY DISCREPANCIES IN DESIGN OR STAKING BEFORE PLACING CONCRETE OR ASPHALT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20' MAINTENANCE AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8                                                                                                                                                                                                           12       8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             19                                                                                                 ACCESS EASEMENT                           7.   THE CONTRACTOR IS TO PROTECT AND PRESERVE ALL EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, AND SIGNS, ETC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12
        x




                                                                                                                                                   3.1'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8                                                                                                                                                                                                      UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON THESE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  26.0'
                                                                                                                        x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                        10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10                                                                                                           8.   WALLS, LANDSCAPING, AND OTHER SCREENING SHALL BE USED AROUND GENERATORS, GROUND EQUIPMENT,
                                                                                                                                                                                                       10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AND UTILITY EQUIPMENT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        26.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9                                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9.0'                                                                 9                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCOPE OF WORK:




                                                                                                                                                                                          20.0'
        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR REFERENCED, THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4                        24.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                              DETAILS NOTED, AND/OR AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1    DRAINAGE CURB OPENING PER DETAIL 14/C-701




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                            20' SLCO MAINTENANCE                                         19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2    LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT DRAINAGE AREA (SEE GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TRI-VIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PHASE 2
                                                                                                                            AND ACCESS EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                  12                                  9                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12                                                                                                                     8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                             3    NOT USED




                                                                                                                                                                        9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6
        x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4” THICK CONCRETE SIDEWALK PER APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 231 AND SPECIFICATIONS. REFER TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                        9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR FINISHES, JOINT PATTERNS, ETC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PONY EXPRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9                                                   66.0'                                                    7.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COVERED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5    SIDEWALK WITH CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 8/C-700.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.8'
                                                                            POWER CORRIDOR
                                                                            ROCKY MOUNTAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.0'                                                                                                                               PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                      18.0'                   26.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18.0'                                      7                                                      6    SIDEWALK PER DRAPER CITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS PER DETAIL ST-12.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4                                                                       9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                                                                                                       7    30” CURB AND GUTTER PER DRAPER CITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS PER DETAIL ST-10.
    x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                                                                                24” COLLECTION CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 1/C-700.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                                                                                                                                                                                  9    24” REVERSE PAN CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 2/C-700.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10   TRANSITION BETWEEN COLLECTION CURB AND GUTTER AND REVERSE PAN CURB AND GUTTER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                               10                                                                          4                                                                                                         24.0'
                                                                                                                                           L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             23                                                                                                                                                                   8                 9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                          INSTALL RADIUS DRIVE APPROACH PER DRAPER CITY STANDARD DETAIL ST-09 (SEE SHEET C-701).
                                                                                                                                         E CANA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11
    x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIDEWALK MUST BE THICKENED FOR COMMERCIAL APPROACH PER DETAIL ST-09.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COVERED                                                                                                                              HANDICAP ACCESS RAMP PER APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 235 WITH DETECTABLE WARNING SURFACE PER
                                                                                                                                                                                                            8                                                                                                                                                        16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING                                                                                                                              APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 238 AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                               10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.7'
                                                                                                                                    LT LAK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON-SITE HANDICAP ACCESS RAMP PER DETAIL 6/C-700 WITH DETECTABLE WARNING SURFACE PER APWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       222.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10                                                                                                                                                 16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STANDARD PLAN NO. 238 AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                23                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.0'                                                      9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14   WHITE CROSSWALK MARKING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS
    x




                                                                                                                                  AND SA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15   12" WIDE SOLID WHITE STOP BAR PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                          2.7'                                                                                                                                                                                      4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     26.3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16   PAINTED ADA SYMBOL AND ASSOCIATED HATCHING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DOUBLE-YELLOW 17          "HANDICAP PARKING" SIGN PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CENTER STRIPING
                                                                                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             18   "STOP" SIGN PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                                                                                                               JORDA
x




                                                                                                                                                                        9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                     I ONA L ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             19   3' CONCRETE WATERWAY PER APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 211 AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ES                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPOSED APARTMENT BLDG. 'C'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOT USED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13.2'
                                                                                                                                                                                    19                                 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No. 10809970-2202
                                                                                                                                                               9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21   NOT USED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RILEY FORD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                           18.0'                                                23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22   INSTALL NEW ASPHALT ON SAWCUT EDGE PER CITY STANDARD PLAN #ST-15 AND #ST-19.                                       7 / 7 / 21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       231.5'                                                                                                                                                                  5.0'                                                                                                                                                                            ST
x




                                                                                                                                                                                26.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7                                                                                                                                                                     AT                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONCRETE WHEEL STOP. WHEEL STOP TO BE PAINTED SAFETY YELLOW WHERE ABUTS PEDESTRIAN WALK                                E O F UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WAY PER DETAIL 5/C-700 TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             24   FLARED END DRIVE APPROACH PER DRAPER CITY DETAIL ST-7 AND ST-8.
                                                                                                                                            3.7'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8.0'
                                                                                                                                                          10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                  6.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10.0'
x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.0'                                                                DEFLECT SIDEWALK AROUND
                                                                                                                    x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING GENERATOR ENCLOSURE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SITE PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTING PHASE 1
                                                                                                                x




                             HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT NUMBER            PRINT DATE
                      30              0        15         30                  60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8153                       7/7/21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAWN BY                  CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A.ROBERTS                  R.FORD
                                         ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                            x




                                      HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R.FORD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C-203
                                                                                                        x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1                                                                                                                 2                                                                                                3                                                                                       4                                                                                                     5                                                                           6                                                                                                         7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REV. DATE
                                                                           This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OVERALL SITE PHASE 2 PARKING SCHEDULE                                                                                 GROSS AREA                                        UNITS PER FLOOR                       OVERALL UNIT BREAKDOWN                                                               OVERALL UNIT BREAKDOWN                                       OVERALL UNIT BREAKDOWN                                PHASE 1:
                                                                                        representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Family and Type                                  COUNT                         Level                  Name                 SF                LEVEL              UNIT COUNT              NAME                      COUNT               AVERAGE AREA                           NAME           COUNT               AVERAGE AREA              NAME           COUNT               AVERAGE AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg                                      362
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COMMERCIAL USE:                                                    UNIT COUNTS                                 PARKING COUNTS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg ADA                                  6                            BUILDING A                                                       BUILDING A                          BUILDING A                                                                           BUILDING B                                                                                                                FITNESS CENTER                       7,121 SQ.FT.                  BUILDING                      434 UNITS     INTERIOR STALLS             492
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 10' x 22' - Parallel                                   27                           LEVEL 1          AMENITY - PT DECK (IBC)   13,753 SF             LEVEL 1         25                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM                      12      680 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           17      680 SF                     BUILDING C                                                   CAFE/ LOBBY                          2,166 SQ.FT.                                                              EXTERIOR STALLS             258
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                : 395                                                                 395                          LEVEL 1          R2-APARTMENTS (IBC)       28,251 SF             LEVEL 2         26                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC                   4       726 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA       1       777 SF                     UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           2       680 SF                     14 CORPORATE NIGHTLY RENTALS        11,948 SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL RESIDENTIAL             434 UNITS     TOTAL                         750 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 2          R2-APARTMENTS (IBC)       28,355 SF             LEVEL 3         26                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM                      1       939 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM MOD       2       637 SF                     UNIT: 1 BEDROOM A1        1       703 SF                                                                                                                                    (750 STALLS/ 434 UNITS= 1.73 LOAD FACTOR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 8' 6" x 16' - COMPACT                                  6                            LEVEL 3          R2-APARTMENTS (IBC)       28,355 SF             LEVEL 4         26                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END                  4       978 SF                                  UNIT: 1 STUDIO            1       573 SF                     UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA       1       708 SF                     TOTAL                               21,135 SQ.FT. COMMERCIAL USE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90                                          99                           LEVEL 4          R2-APARTMENTS (IBC)       28,355 SF             LEVEL 5         24                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC                   4       1,088 SF                                UNIT: 1 STUDIO C          1       458 SF                     UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC        2       700 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 ADA                                      2                            LEVEL 5          AMENITY DECK              1,830 SF              BUILDING A: 127 127                 LEVEL 1                              25      4,410 SF                                UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           4       939 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           8       939 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BUILDING A: 107                                                       107                          LEVEL 5          INTERIOR AMENITY          701 SF                                                                                                                                         UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END       2       979 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END       2       979 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8-19-2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 5          R2-APARTMENTS (IBC)       25,812 SF             BUILDING B                          UNIT: 1 BEDROOM                      12      680 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM IC        4       1,084 SF                   UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        2       1,098 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 8' - 6"' x 16' COMPACT                                 5                            PARKING          LEASING                   1,236 SF              LEVEL 1         38                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC                   4       726 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        4       1,091 SF                   UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       2       1,163 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg                                      118                          PARKING          PARKING AREA (IBC)        39,052 SF             LEVEL 2         39                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM                      1       939 SF                                  UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       2       1,163 SF                   LEVEL 1                   20      6,970 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg ADA                                  2                            BUILDING A: 10                             195,700 SF            LEVEL 3         39                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END                  4       979 SF                                  LEVEL 1                   38      8,380 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BUILDING B: 125                                                       125                                                                                           LEVEL 4         39                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC                   4       1,088 SF                                                                                             UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           6       688 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUILDING B                                                       LEVEL 5         36                  UNIT: STUDIO A                       1       458 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           18      680 SF                     UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC        2       700 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SCHEMATIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg                                      69                           LEVEL 1          AMENITY DECK              3,767 SF              BUILDING B: 191 191                 LEVEL 2                              26      4,869 SF                                UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA       1       777 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           8       939 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg ADA                                  2                            LEVEL 1          INTERIOR AMENITY          1,425 SF                                                                                                                                       UNIT: 1 BEDROOM MOD       2       637 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END       2       979 SF                                     GROSS AREA RETAIL                                  UNIT COUNTS                                 PARKING COUNTS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BUILDING C: 71                                                        71                           LEVEL 1          R2-APARTMENTS             42,012 SF             BUILDING C                          UNIT: 1 BEDROOM                      12      680 SF                                  UNIT: 1 STUDIO C          1       458 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        2       1,098 SF                           Level                Name                          SF      BUILDING A                    127           BUILDING A                  107 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GRAND TOTAL:                                                          698                          LEVEL 2          R2-APARTMENTS             42,403 SF             LEVEL 1          20                 UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC                   4       726 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           5       939 SF                     UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       2       1,163 SF                                                                                      BUILDING B                    191 UNITS     BUILDING B                  125 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 3          R2-APARTMENTS             42,372 SF             LEVEL 2          22                 UNIT: 2 BEDROOM                      1       939 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END       2       979 SF                     LEVEL 2                   22      5,567 SF                                                                                      BUILDING C                    82 UNITS      BUILDING C                  71 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BUILDING A                                                                                                     SITE                        400 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 4          R2-APARTMENTS             42,362 SF             LEVEL 3          21                 UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END                  4       979 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM IC        4       1,072 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMMERCIAL UNITS                                                              GROSS AREA AMENITY                                             LEVEL 5          AMENITY DECK              2,176 SF              LEVEL 5          19                 UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC                   4       1,088 SF                                UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        4       1,091 SF                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           6       688 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RETAIL - LEVEL 2 (IBC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RETAIL AREA 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5,716 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2,922 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL RESIDENTIAL              400 UNITS           (COVERED)            (130 STALLS)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NAME              COUNT           AVERAGE AREA PER UNIT                       Level                       Name                  SF             LEVEL 5          INTERIOR AMENITY          828 SF                BUILDING C: 82   82                 UNIT: STUDIO A                       1       458 SF                                  UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       2       1,163 SF                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC        2       700 SF                     PARKING           RETAIL AREA 2                1,698 SF                                                        TOTAL                       703 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 5          R2-APARTMENTS             39,382 SF             TOTAL UNITS:                        LEVEL 3                              26      4,869 SF                                LEVEL 2                   39      7,797 SF                   UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           8       939 SF                     PARKING           RETAIL AREA 3                3,292 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     400                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (703 STALLS/ 400 UNITS > 1.76 LOAD FACTOR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING C                                                                           BUILDING A                                                              PARKING          PARKING AREA              47,806 SF             400                                                                                                                                                                                   UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END       2       979 SF                     PARKING           RETAIL AREA 4                3,800 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CT: 2 BEDROOM OC               1            554 SF                                   LEVEL 1               AMENITY - PT DECK (IBC)      13,753 SF            BUILDING B: 10                             264,534 SF                                                UNIT: 1 BEDROOM                      12      680 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           18      680 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        1       543 SF                     PARKING           RETAIL SERVICE               674 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 3                        1            554 SF                                   LEVEL 5               AMENITY DECK                 1,830 SF                                                                                                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC                   4       726 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA       1       777 SF                     UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       1       1,163 SF                   PARKING           RETAIL STORAGE               316 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LEVEL 5               INTERIOR AMENITY             701 SF               BUILDING C                                                                                           UNIT: 2 BEDROOM                      1       939 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM MOD       2       637 SF                     UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END ADA   1       1,163 SF                   BUILDING A: 7                                  18,418 SF           OPEN AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CT: 1 BEDROOM                  6            688 SF                                   BUILDING A: 3                                      16,284 SF            LEVEL 1           FITNESS CENTER           1,570 SF                                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END                  4       979 SF                                  UNIT: 1 STUDIO C          1       458 SF                     LEVEL 3                   21      6,175 SF                                                                                      Phase 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CT: 1 BEDROOM IC               2            700 SF                                                                                                           LEVEL 1           R2-APARTMENTS            23,921 SF                                                 UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC                   4       1,088 SF                                UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           5       939 SF                                                                                  BUILDING C                                                         Total Site = 360,291
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CT: 2 BEDROOM                  8            939 SF                                   BUILDING B                                                              LEVEL 2           R2-APARTMENTS            25,488 SF                                                 UNIT: STUDIO A                       1       458 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END       2       979 SF                     UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           5       685 SF                     LEVEL 1           FITNESS CENTER               1,570 SF            Exterior Landscape = 62,829 sf = 17%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CT: 2 BEDROOM END              2            979 SF                                   LEVEL 1               AMENITY DECK                 3,767 SF             LEVEL 3           R2-APARTMENTS            24,244 SF                                                 LEVEL 4                              26      4,869 SF                                UNIT: 2 BEDROOM IC        4       1,084 SF                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC        2       700 SF                                                                                        Exterior Amenity = 31,489 sf = 8%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 3           L3-CORTEL                    1,247 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total Exterior Open Space = 25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CT: 2 BEDROOM OC               2            1,098 SF                                 LEVEL 1               INTERIOR AMENITY             1,425 SF             LEVEL 5           AMENITY DECK             2,205 SF                                                                                                                                       UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        3       1,096 SF                   UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           8       937 SF                     LEVEL 4           L4-CORTEL                    25,491 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CT: 3 BEDROOM END              2            1,163 SF                                 LEVEL 5               AMENITY DECK                 2,176 SF             LEVEL 5           INTERIOR AMENITY         815 SF                                                    UNIT: 1 BEDROOM                      12      681 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC ADA    1       1,076 SF                   UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        1       1,109 SF                   PARKING           DOG OFFICE                   327 SF              Phase 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 4                        22           5,567 SF                                 LEVEL 5               INTERIOR AMENITY             828 SF               LEVEL 5           R2-APARTMENTS            22,465 SF                                                 UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC                   4       726 SF                                  UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       2       1,163 SF                   UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC ADA    1       1,086 SF                   PARKING           DOG PARK                     5,066 SF            Project Site area = 299,393 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING C: 23                 23           _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6,121 SF                                 BUILDING B: 4                                      8,197 SF             PARKING           DOG OFFICE               327 SF                                                    UNIT: 2 BEDROOM                      1       939 SF                                  LEVEL 3                   39      8,889 SF                   UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       2       1,163 SF                   PARKING           DOG RUN                      744 SF              Project Open Space = 113,398 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARKING           DOG PARK                 5,066 SF                                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END                  2       981 SF                                                                                               LEVEL 5                   19      5,680 SF                   PARKING           SMALL DOG PARK               1,887 SF            Total Open Space = 37%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING C                                                              PARKING           DOG RUN                  744 SF                                                    UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC                   4       1,088 SF                                UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           18      680 SF                     BUILDING C: 82            82      24,392 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GROSS AREA COMMERCIAL UNITS                                                      LEVEL 5          AMENITY DECK                      2,205 SF             PARKING           PARKING AREA             24,735 SF                                                 UNIT: STUDIO A                       1       458 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA       1       777 SF                     TOTAL UNITS: 400          400     90,248 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BUILDING C: 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL BUILDING SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      36,332 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      54,749 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phase 1 and 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total Project Site area = 659,684 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Level                     Name                               SF                LEVEL 5          INTERIOR AMENITY                  815 SF               PARKING           SMALL DOG PARK           1,887 SF                                                  LEVEL 5                              24      4,872 SF                                UNIT: 1 BEDROOM MOD       2       637 SF                                                                                                                                                     Total Project Open Space = 207,716 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING C: 2                                      3,020 SF             BUILDING C: 12                             133,465 SF                                                BUILDING A: 127                      127     23,891 SF                               UNIT: 1 STUDIO C          1       458 SF                                                                                   PHASE 1 + PHASE 2 =                 75,884 SQ. FT                 Total Open Space = 30%
                                                                                      D                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUILDING C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 3           L3-CORTEL                            1,247 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL AMENITY SF                                   27,501 SF            TOTAL BUILDING SF                          593,699 SF                                                                                                                                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               939 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               979 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            75,000 REQUIRED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 4           L4-CORTEL                            25,491 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNIT: 2 BEDROOM IC        4       1,084 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING C: 2                                          26,739 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        4       1,091 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL BUILDING SF                                      26,739 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       1       1,163 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END ADA   1       1,163 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 4                   39      8,971 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           17      680 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA       1       777 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 1 BEDROOM MOD       2       637 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 1 STUDIO C          1       458 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           5       939 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 2 BEDROOM IC        4       1,084 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        3       1,086 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC ADA    1       1,106 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       2       1,163 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 5                   36      7,929 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING B: 191           191     41,965 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I-15 ON RAM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PONY EXPRESS ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (PUBLIC STREET)



                                                                                  C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12300 SOUTH PONY EXPRESS ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COVERED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COVERED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BUILDING A                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARKING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRIVIEW PHASE II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RETAIL                                                                                                      COVERED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DARPER UT, 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PHASE 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUILDING C


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COVERED PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VALET DOG SPA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PR
                                                                                          B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No.273765
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JORDAN AND SALT LAKE CANAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12300 SO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF UT
C:\Users\jwalker\Documents\TRI-VIEW 2 SITE_jwalker@beecherwalker.com.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WILLOW CREEK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F 801.438.9501

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BEECHERWALKER.COM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               451.1802
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LONE PEAK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DWN BY                        CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARKWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DG, JM                          DV
                                                                                          A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (PUBLIC STR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EE   T)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A                                         SCHEMATIC
PRINTED AT 3/23/2021 11:40:09 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWING NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OVERALL CONCEPT SITE PLAN - NOT FOR SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1" = 60'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1                                                                                                                 2                                                                                                3                                                                                       4                                                                                                     5                                                                           6                                                                                                        7
     EXHIBIT F
ACCESS ROAD DESIGN
                                                              BENCHMARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                   WITNESS CORNER IN PONY EXPRESS ROAD
              R        @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                                                   TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 25,
                       PRIOR TO THE
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
                                                   TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENSIGN




                                                                                                                                                               .0'
Know what's below.                                 SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN




                                                                                                                                                              42
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.
                                                   ELEVATION = 4427.34
                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST ROW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING
                                                                                                            EXIST SOLID DOUBLE                                                     CENTERLINE
                                                                                                        YELLOW LINES TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SALT LAKE CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
NOTE:                                                                                                                            EXIST ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sandy, UT 84070
ALL WORK IN RIGHT OF WAY TO BE CONSTRUCTED PER DRAPER CITY                                                                         CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Phone: 801.255.0529




                                                                                                                                                                           .5 '
STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.




                                                                                                                                                                         24
                                                                                                                                                   . 0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INSTALL SOLID WHITE LINE PER MUTCD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LAYTON




                                                                                                                                                 42
 GENERAL NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phone: 801.547.1100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
 1.   ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                                                                                                  EXIST SOLID WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOOELE




                                                                                                                                                                .5 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LINE TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Phone: 435.843.3590




                                                                                                                                                              24
 2.   ALL IMPROVEMENTS MUST COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST LEFT TURN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SIGN (W1-6L)                       INSTALL "RIGHT TURN ONLY" SIGN PER                              CEDAR CITY
 3.   SEE LANDSCAPE/ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR CONCRETE MATERIAL, COLOR, FINISH, AND SCORE PATTERNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INSTALL SOLID DOUBLE YELLOW LINES PER                                                                                              MUTCD STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS                              Phone: 435.865.1453
      THROUGHOUT SITE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MUTCD STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
 4.   ALL PAVEMENT MARKINGS SHALL CONFORM TO THE LATEST EDITION OF THE M.U.T.C.D. (MANUAL ON UNIFORM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RICHFIELD
      TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES).                                                                                                                           INSTALL LEFT TURN ARROW PER MUTCD                                                                 EXIST SOLID DOUBLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                                                                                                                               STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS                                                                 YELLOW LINES TO REMAIN                                                                                        EXIST CHEVRON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SIGN (W1-8L)                                                      EXIST CHEVRON
 5.   ALL SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS DISTURBED BY CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE RESTORED OR REPLACED,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SIGN (W1-8L)
      INCLUDING TREES AND DECORATIVE SHRUBS, SOD, FENCES, WALLS AND STRUCTURES, WHETHER OR NOT
      THEY ARE SPECIFICALLY SHOWN ON THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.                                                                                                                                                                            INSTALL LEFT TURN ARROW PER MUTCD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INSTALL 24" CURB AND
 6.   NOTIFY ENGINEER OF ANY DISCREPANCIES IN DESIGN OR STAKING BEFORE PLACING CONCRETE OR ASPHALT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INSTALL 30" CURB AND GUTTER PER                                                                                                                              FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GUTTER PER DETAIL 1/C-700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXIST ROW                               DRAPER CITY STANDARDS AND                                                                                                                                TRIAGO VENTURES
 7.   THE CONTRACTOR IS TO PROTECT AND PRESERVE ALL EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, AND SIGNS, ETC.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CENTERLINE                            SPECIFICATIONS PER DETAIL ST-10                                       6" CF                                                                                 438W 12300S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14.0'
      UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON THESE PLANS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INSTALL "STOP" SIGN PER MUTCD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST SOLID WHITE                                                                                                                                                                                                              0" CF                                                                                                         CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L
 8.   WALLS, LANDSCAPING, AND OTHER SCREENING SHALL BE USED AROUND GENERATORS, GROUND EQUIPMENT,                                                                                                   LINE TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CARA HICKS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
      AND UTILITY EQUIPMENT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INSTALL NO TRAVEL                                                                                                                                                                PHONE: 801-556-8030




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ZONE STRIPING AREA                                                                                           INSTALL "ONLY" STRIPING PER MUTCD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12358, 12426 & 12498 S. LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                          INSTALL SOLID WHITE LINE PER MUTCD                                                                                    INSTALL LEFT TURN ARROW PER MUTCD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                              INSTALL RIGHT TURN ARROW PER MUTCD
                                                                                                                                                                                                              STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST SHARP TURN                                                                                                                                                           0" CF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15 MPH SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (W1-1L & W13-1P)                                                                                                                                                                              6" CF      INSTALL 12" WIDE SOLID WHITE STOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROPOSED TRAVEL                                                                                              BAR PER MUTCD STANDARDS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LANES CENTERLINE                           90°'                                                              SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R=77.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L=103.96'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INSTALL SOLID WHITE LINE PER MUTCD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS                          EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RIGHT-OF-WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NEW EDGE OF                                                                                         R=96.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ASPHALT LOCATION      R=58.00'                                                                          L=24.52'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L=75.30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INSTALL 30" CURB AND GUTTER PER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TRI-VIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRAPER CITY STANDARDS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SPECIFICATIONS PER DETAIL ST-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEW ASPHALT PAVEMENT AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PER DRAPER CITY STANDARDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AND SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.0'                              12.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INSTALL SOLID DOUBLE YELLOW LINES PER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSTALL SOLID DOUBLE YELLOW LINES PER                                                                       MUTCD STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MUTCD STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSTALL SOLID WHITE LINE PER MUTCD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RIGHT-OF-WAY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x                     x                    x                     x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                       HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INSTALL SOLID WHITE LINE PER MUTCD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           x
                                                                                                                                                                              20                0         10         20            40                                                                                                       STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                    ( IN FEET )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S   I ONA L ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                 HORZ: 1 inch = 20 ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ES                       I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST SOLID WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LINE TO REMAIN                                                                                      No. 10809970-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RILEY FORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7 / 7 / 21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AT                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E O F UT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST SOLID WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LINE TO REMAIN



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST SOLID DOUBLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       YELLOW LINES TO REMAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST ROW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CENTERLINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NUMBER            PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8153                       7/7/21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAWN BY                  CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                35.0'                                                  35.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A.ROBERTS                  R.FORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST SHARP TURN                                                             PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15 MPH SIGN (W1-1aR)                                                         R.FORD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C-206
      EXHIBIT G
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY
           Tri-View II
Traffic Impact Study Update




             Draper, Utah
                    April 28, 2021                              04/28/2021

                        UT21-1826




1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                  www.halesengineering.com
                                                                                                                                                         Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study



                                                             EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

         This study addresses the traffic impacts associated with the proposed Phase II of the Tri-View
         development located in Draper, Utah. The Tri-View project is located between 12650 South and
         12300 South and between Lone Peak Parkway and Pony Express Drive.

         The purpose of this traffic impact study is to analyze traffic operations at key intersections for
         existing (2021), future (2026), and future (2050) conditions with and without the proposed project
         and to recommend mitigation measures as needed. The evening peak hour level of service (LOS)
         results are shown in Table ES-1. Recommended storage lengths are shown in Table ES-2.

                                  Table ES-1: Evening Peak Hour Level of Service Results
                                                                                                                  Level of Service
                             Intersection                                  Existing (2021)                      Future (2026)                        Future (2050)
                                                                              BG           PP           BG        BG Mit.          PP       BG           BG Mit.         PP
    1       Lone Peak Parkway / 12600 South (S.R. 71)                             D            D            E          D           D            F           -                -
    2             12650 South / Pony Express Drive                                a            a            a          a           a            a          a                 a
    3             12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway                                 A            A            C          A           A            B          B                 A
    4     W Business Access & Access 1 / 12650 South                              a            a            a          a           a            a          a                 a
    5           East Business Access / 12650 South                                a            a            a          a           a            a          a                 a
    6               Access 2 / Pony Express Drive                                 a            a            a          a           a            a          a                 a
    7               Access 3 / Pony Express Drive                                 a            a            a          a           a            a          a                 a
    8               Access 4 / Pony Express Drive                                 a            a            a          a           a            a          a                 a
    9               Access 5 / Pony Express Drive                                 a            a            a          a           a            a          a                 a
    10              Access 6 / Pony Express Drive                                 -            a            -          -           a            -           -                a
    11              Access 7 / Pony Express Drive                                 -            a            -          -           a            -           -                a
    12           West Access / Lone Peak Parkway                                  -            f            -          -           f            -           -                f
     1. Intersection LOS values represent the overall intersection average for roundabout, signalized, and all-w ay stop-controlled (AWSC) intersections
     (uppercase letter) and the w orst movement for all other unsignalized intersections (low ercase letter)
     2. BG = Background (w ithout project traffic), PP = Plus Project (w ith project traffic)
    Source: Hales Engineering, January 2021


                                             Table ES-2: Recommended Storage Lengths
                                                                                                   Recommended Storage Lengths (feet)
                                                                         Northbound                    Southbound                  Eastbound                    Westbound
                        Intersection
                                                                         LT               RT           LT             RT           LT           RT              LT               RT
                                                                     E        P       E        P   E        P     E        P   E        P   E        P     E         P       E        P
1            West Access / Lone Peak Parkway                         -        -       -        -   -    150       -        -   -        -   -        -     -         -       -    150
 1. Storage lengths are based on 2040 95th percentile queue lengths and do not include required deceleration / taper distances
 2. E = Existing storage length (approximate), if applicable; P = proposed storage length for new turn lanes or changes to existing turn lanes, if applicable
Source: Hales Engineering, January 2021


                                                                                                                                                                         i
                                                                                                  Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                  Traffic Impact Study



SUMMARY OF KEY FINDINGS & RECOMMENDATIONS

Project Conditions
• Phase II of the development will consist of residential apartment units, a pet grooming business, some
  weekly rental units, and some retail.
• Phase II of the project is anticipated to generate on an average weekday approximately 320 trips in the
  morning peak hour, and 382 trips in the evening peak hour
    2021        Background                                               Plus Project
                                                                         • Some Phase I trips rerouted
                                                                           through West Access
                                                                         • Trips associated with buildings that
                 • Phase I projected trips added to background
Assumptions                                                                currently exist in Phase II of the
                   volumes
                                                                           project area removed
                                                                         • Lone Peak Pkwy: Realigned to
                                                                           accommodate West Access
                 • Excessive queueing at the Lone Peak Pkwy /            • Poor LOS at the West Access /
  Findings
                   12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection                      Lone Peak Pkwy intersection
                 • Lone Peak Pkwy / 12300 South (S.R. 71):               • None; drivers will learn to adapt and
 Mitigations
                   Implement NB right-turn overlap phase                   reroute
    2026        Background                                               Plus Project
                 • Lone Peak Pkwy: Realigned and widened to 5
Assumptions                                                              • None
                   lanes per WFRC plan
                 • Poor LOS at the Lone Peak Pkwy / 12300 South          • Poor LOS at the West Access /
  Findings
                   (S.R. 71) intersection                                  Lone Peak Pkwy intersection
                 • Lone Peak Pkwy / 12300 South (S.R. 71): Install
 Mitigations       dual WB left-turn lanes, separate right-turn pocket   • None
                   and install NB dual right-turn lanes
    2050        Background                                               Plus Project
                 • 12650 South / Lone Peak Pkwy: Signalize with          • The Lone Peak Pkwy / 12300 South
                   SB permissive/protected left-turn phasing               (S.R. 71) intersection was assumed
Assumptions
                 • 12300 South (S.R. 71): Widen to 6-lane cross-           to have adequate capacity and was
                   section with separate EB right-turn pocket              removed from the model
                 • Poor LOS at the Lone Peak Pkwy / 12300 South          • Poor LOS at the West Access /
  Findings
                   (S.R. 71) intersection                                  Lone Peak Pkwy intersection
                 • Lone Peak Pkwy / 12300 South (S.R. 71):
                   UDOT should consider implementing an
 Mitigations       innovative intersection, such as a continuous flow    • None
                   intersection (CFI). Intersection was removed from
                   model in mitigated scenario




                                                                                                            ii
                                                                                                                                                  Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                                  Traffic Impact Study



                                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................................................................................................................... i
SUMMARY OF KEY FINDINGS & RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................................................... ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS .............................................................................................................................. iii
LIST OF TABLES ......................................................................................................................................... v
LIST OF FIGURES ....................................................................................................................................... v
I.     INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................................. 1
A.     Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 1
B.     Scope .................................................................................................................................................... 2
C.     Analysis Methodology ........................................................................................................................... 2
D.     Level of Service Standards ................................................................................................................... 2
II.    EXISTING (2021) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS............................................................................... 4
A.     Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 4
B.     Roadway System .................................................................................................................................. 4
C.     Traffic Volumes ..................................................................................................................................... 4
D.     Level of Service Analysis ...................................................................................................................... 5
E.     Queuing Analysis .................................................................................................................................. 5
F.     Mitigation Measures .............................................................................................................................. 5
III.   PROJECT CONDITIONS ................................................................................................................... 10
A.     Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 10
B.     Project Description .............................................................................................................................. 10
C.     Trip Generation ................................................................................................................................... 10
D.     Trip Distribution and Assignment ........................................................................................................ 11
E.     Access ................................................................................................................................................. 13
IV.    EXISTING (2021) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS ........................................................................... 15
A.     Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 15
B.     Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 15
C.     Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 15
D.     Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 15
E.     Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 15
V.     FUTURE (2026) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS ............................................................................... 19
A.     Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 19
B.     Roadway Network ............................................................................................................................... 19
C.     Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 19
D.     Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 19
E.     Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 19
F.     Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 20
VI.    FUTURE (2026) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS.............................................................................. 24
A.     Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 24
B.     Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 24
C.     Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 24
D.     Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 24
E.     Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 24


                                                                                                                                                                iii
                                                                                                                                              Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                              Traffic Impact Study


VII. FUTURE (2050) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS ............................................................................... 27
A.   Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 27
B.   Roadway Network ............................................................................................................................... 27
C.   Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 27
D.   Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 27
E.   Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 27
F.   Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 28
VIII. FUTURE (2050) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS.............................................................................. 32
A.   Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 32
B.   Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 32
C.   Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 32
D.   Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 32
E.   Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 32
F.   Recommended Storage Lengths ........................................................................................................ 32

Appendix A: Turning Movement Counts
Appendix B: LOS Results
Appendix C: Project Site Plan
Appendix D: Queuing Results




                                                                                                                                                            iv
                                                                                                                                     Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                    Traffic Impact Study



                                                          LIST OF TABLES
Table 1: Level of Service Description .................................................................................................... 3
Table 2: Existing (2021) Background Evening Peak Hour LOS ............................................................ 9
Table 3: Phase II Project Land Uses ................................................................................................... 10
Table 4: Trip Generation ...................................................................................................................... 11
Table 5: Trip Distribution ...................................................................................................................... 11
Table 6: Existing (2021) Plus Project Evening Peak Hour LOS .......................................................... 18
Table 7: Future (2026) Background Evening Peak Hour LOS ............................................................ 22
Table 8: Mitigated Future (2026) Background Evening Peak Hour LOS ............................................ 23
Table 9: Future (2026) Plus Project Evening Peak Hour LOS ............................................................ 26
Table 10: Future (2050) Background Evening Peak Hour LOS .......................................................... 30
Table 11: Mitigated Future (2050) Background Evening Peak Hour LOS .......................................... 31
Table 12: Future (2050) Plus Project Evening Peak Hour LOS .......................................................... 34
Table 13: Recommended Storage Lengths ......................................................................................... 34


                                                         LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1: Vicinity map showing the project location in Draper, Utah ..................................................... 1
Figure 2: Existing (2021) counted evening peak hour traffic volumes .................................................. 6
Figure 3: Phase I trip assignment evening peak hour traffic volumes .................................................. 7
Figure 4: Existing (2021) background evening peak hour traffic volumes ............................................ 8
Figure 5: Phase II trip assignment for the evening peak hour............................................................. 12
Figure 6: Rerouted Phase I trip assignment ........................................................................................ 16
Figure 7: Existing (2021) plus project evening peak hour traffic volumes........................................... 17
Figure 8: Future (2026) background evening peak hour volumes ...................................................... 21
Figure 9: Future (2026) plus project evening peak hour volumes ....................................................... 25
Figure 10: Future (2050) background evening peak hour volumes .................................................... 29
Figure 11: Future (2050) plus project evening peak hour volumes ..................................................... 33




                                                                                                                                                  v
                                                                                       Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                       Traffic Impact Study



                                    I.   INTRODUCTION

A.     Purpose

This study addresses the traffic impacts associated with Phase II of the proposed Tri-View
development located in Draper, Utah. The proposed project is located between 12650 South and
12300 South and between Lone Peak Parkway and Pony Express Drive. Figure 1 shows a vicinity
map of the proposed development.

The purpose of this traffic impact study is to analyze traffic operations at key intersections for
existing (2021), future (2026), and future (2050) conditions with and without the proposed project
and to recommend mitigation measures as needed.




         Figure 1: Vicinity map showing the project location in Draper, Utah




                                                                                                1
                                                                                         Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study



B.     Scope

The study area was defined based on conversations with the development team. This study was
scoped to evaluate the traffic operational performance impacts of the project on the following
intersections:
        • Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71)
        • 12650 South / Pony Express Drive
        • 12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway
        • West Business Access / 12650 South
        • East Business Access / 12650 South
        • Project Accesses

C.     Analysis Methodology

Level of service (LOS) is a term that describes the operating performance of an intersection or
roadway. LOS is measured quantitatively and reported on a scale from A to F, with A representing
the best performance and F the worst. Table 1 provides a brief description of each LOS letter
designation and an accompanying average delay per vehicle for both signalized and unsignalized
intersections.

The Highway Capacity Manual (HCM), 6th Edition, 2016 methodology was used in this study to
remain consistent with “state-of-the-practice” professional standards. This methodology has
different quantitative evaluations for signalized and unsignalized intersections. For signalized,
roundabout, and all-way stop-controlled (AWSC) intersections, the LOS is provided for the overall
intersection (weighted average of all approach delays). For all other unsignalized intersections,
LOS is reported based on the worst movement.

Using Synchro/SimTraffic software, which follow the HCM methodology, the peak hour LOS was
computed for each study intersection. Multiple runs of SimTraffic were used to provide a statistical
evaluation of the interaction between the intersections. The detailed LOS reports are provided in
Appendix B. Hales Engineering also calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for the study
intersections using SimTraffic. The detailed queue length reports are provided in Appendix D.

D.     Level of Service Standards

For the purposes of this study, a minimum acceptable intersection performance for each of the
study intersections was set at LOS D. If levels of service E or F conditions exist, an explanation
and/or mitigation measures will be presented. A LOS D threshold is consistent with “state-of-the-
practice” traffic engineering principles for urbanized areas.




                                                                                                  2
                                                                                          Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                          Traffic Impact Study



                            Table 1: Level of Service Description

                                                                              Average Delay
                                                                            (seconds/vehicle)
                                                   Description of
                    LOS
                                                 Traffic Conditions
                                                                         Signalized    Unsignalized
                                                                       Intersections   Intersections



                                                     Free Flow /
 A                                                                         ≤ 10             ≤ 10
                                                 Insignificant Delay




                                                 Stable Operations /
 B                                                                      > 10 to 20       > 10 to 15
                                                  Minimum Delays




                                                 Stable Operations /
 C                                                                      > 20 to 35       > 15 to 25
                                                 Acceptable Delays




                                                    Approaching
 D                                                Unstable Flows /      > 35 to 55       > 25 to 35
                                                  Tolerable Delays




                                                Unstable Operations
 E                                                                      > 55 to 80       > 35 to 50
                                                / Significant Delays




                                                   Forced Flows /
 F                                              Unpredictable Flows        > 80             > 50
                                                / Excessive Delays



Source: Hales Engineering Descriptions, based on the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM), 6th Edition, 2016
Methodology (Transportation Research Board)




                                                                                                      3
                                                                                         Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study



               II.   EXISTING (2021) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the background analysis is to study the intersections and roadways during the
peak travel periods of the day with background traffic and geometric conditions. Through this
analysis, background traffic operational deficiencies can be identified, and potential mitigation
measures recommended. This analysis provides a baseline condition that may be compared to
the build conditions to identify the impacts of the development.

B.     Roadway System

The primary roadways that will provide access to the project site are described below:

Lone Peak Parkway – is a city-maintained roadway that provides north/south connectivity from
12650 South to 12300 South (S.R. 71). Lone Peak Parkway is anticipated to be realigned from
12300 South (S.R. 71) to the vacant lot on the north corner of the Western Architectural Services
building. Lone Peak Parkway has one travel lane in each direction adjacent to the site. The posted
speed limit on Lone Peak Parkway is 35 mph.

12650 South – is a city-maintained roadway that provides east/west connectivity from Pony
Express Drive to several major retail areas adjacent to the proposed development. The posted
speed limit on 12650 South adjacent to the site is 35 mph.

Pony Express Drive – is a city-maintained roadway that provides north/south connectivity from
12650 South to several existing residential homes and the existing dairy company at the proposed
development. Pony Express Drive will provide direct access to the proposed development. The
posted speed limit on Pony Express Drive adjacent to the site is 40 mph.

C.     Traffic Volumes

Weekday morning (7:00 to 9:00 a.m.) and evening (4:00 to 6:00 p.m.) peak period traffic counts
were performed at the following intersections:
      • Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71)
      • 12650 South / Pony Express Drive
      • 12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway
      • West Business Access / 12650 South
      • East Business Access / 12650 South

The counts were performed on Tuesday, January 19, 2021. The morning peak hour was
determined to be between 7:30 and 8:30 a.m., and the evening peak hour was determined to be
between 4:00 and 5:00 p.m. The evening peak hour volumes were approximately 19% higher
than the morning peak hour volumes. Therefore, the evening peak hour volumes were used in


                                                                                                 4
                                                                                        Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study


the analysis to represent the worst-case conditions. Detailed count data are included in Appendix
A.

The traffic counts were collected during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, based on UDOT
Automated Traffic Signal Performance Measures (ATSPM), volumes on January 19 were higher
on 12300 South than they were a year prior. For this reason, the data were not adjusted.

Traffic volumes from Phase I of the development were added, which phase is currently under
construction.

Figure 2 shows the counted existing evening peak hour volumes, Figure 3 shows the trip
assignment from Phase I of the development, and Figure 4 shows the summed existing (2021)
background volumes that were used as well as intersection geometry at the study intersections.

D.     Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that all study intersections are currently operating at acceptable
levels of service during the evening peak hour, as shown in Table 2. These results serve as a
baseline condition for the impact analysis of the proposed development during existing (2021)
conditions.

E.     Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
Some significant queueing was observed during the evening peak hour at the Lone Peak Parkway
/ 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection (850 feet, northbound approach).

F.     Mitigation Measures

To mitigate the excessive northbound queueing at the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R.
71) intersection, it is recommended that a right-turn overlap be implemented on the northbound
approach. With the proposed improvement, it is anticipated that the northbound queueing will
reduce to 275 feet.




                                                                                                 5
Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                      Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2021) Background Counts                                                                                                              Figure 2


                              267




                       179
                       139
                       427
                              1326
                              308


         12300 South    162                                                                                                             12300 South




                               78
                              136
                              520
                       1374
                         15




                                             Lone Peak Parkway
                                    265
                                    20
                                   69




                                            138
                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                63




                                            28                                               163                          151
                                            6                                                0                            7

                              15                                 59                           57                                14
       12650 South
                                                                                                                                      95
                                                                                                                                       5




                              10                                 33                            2                                48
                              57
                                                                      West Business Access
                                            53




                                                                                                   East Business Access
                                          379
                                           8




                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                             0
                                                                                             12




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                          801.766.4343
120 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                  04/28/2021
Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                 Evening Peak Hour
Phase I Trip Assignment                                                                                                                   Figure 3


                            0




                       28
                            0



                       0
                       0
                            62


         12300 South    0                                                                                                                            12300 South




                            21
                            17
                            39
                        0
                       34




                                        Lone Peak Parkway




                                                                                                                                Pony Express Drive
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                               Access 5

                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        12
                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                                          9




                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                           15




                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                    Access 1




                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                           21
                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                           20




                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                            0
                                124




                                                                                                                       5
                                 0




                                                                                         0
                                0




                                        77
                                                                                         20                           20
                                                                                                                           20
                                                             61




                                        0
                                                                                                                            5
                                                              0
                                                              0




                                        4                                                0                            0
                                                                                                                                               29
                                                                                                                                               8




                            0                               101                           30                               30
       12650 South
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                7




                            0                                30                            0                                0
                            0                                 0
                                                                  West Business Access
                                        0




                                                                                               East Business Access
                                      0
                                      7




                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                       801.766.4343
120 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                               04/28/2021
Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                    Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2021) Background                                                                                                                   Figure 4


                                 267




                          179
                          167
                          427
                                 1326
                                 370


            12300 South    162                                                                                                                               12300 South




                                 559
                                 153
                                 99
                          1374
                            49




                                        Lo
                                             ne
                                                P   ea
                                                       k   Pa
                                                             rkw
                                                                   ay




                                                                                                                                        Pony Express Drive
                                                                                                                                   73
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                      Access 5

                                                                                                                                    0

                                                                                                                                                19
                                                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                   83
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                  31
                                                                                                                                                  9


                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                   88




                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                           Access 1




                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                   40
                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                   93




                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                    0
                                      265
                                      193
                                       20




                                                      215                                       0                             5
                                                                                                                                   15




                                                                                                183                          171
                                                                                                                                   83
                                                                        61




                                                      28
                                                                         0
                                                                         0




                                                      10                                        0                            7
                                                                                                                                                       48
                                                                                                                                                       8




                                 15                                101                           87                                44
          12650 South
                                                                                                                                                        95
                                                                                                                                                        12




                                 10                                 89                            2                                48
                                 57                                 33
                                                                         West Business Access
                                                53




                                                                                                      East Business Access
                                              379
                                              15




                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                12




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                            801.766.4343
120 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                    04/28/2021
                                                                                                                                           Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                           Traffic Impact Study



                    Table 2: Existing (2021) Background Evening Peak Hour LOS

                                      Intersection                                                                  Level of Service

                                                                                                                            Aver. Delay
                           Description                                          Control              Movement1                                 LOS2
                                                                                                                            (Sec. / Veh.)

   Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71)                                     Signal                      -                    49.0          D

          12650 South / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBL                      5.1           a

          12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway                                        AWSC                        -                     9.0          A

 W Business Access & Access 1 / 12650 South                                  NB/SB Stop                   NBL                      6.4           a

         East Business Access / 12650 South                                     NB Stop                   NBL                      4.8           a

             Access 2 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      3.2           a

             Access 3 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.6           a

             Access 4 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.4           a

             Access 5 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.9           a
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, April 2021




                                                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                          Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                          Traffic Impact Study



                               III. PROJECT CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The project conditions discussion explains the type and intensity of development. This provides
the basis for trip generation, distribution, and assignment of Phase II project trips to the
surrounding study intersections defined in Chapter I.

B.     Project Description

The proposed Tri-View II development is located between 12650 South and 12300 South and
between Lone Peak Parkway and Pony Express Drive. Phase II of the development will consist
of residential apartment units, a pet grooming business, some weekly rental units, and some retail.
A concept plan for the proposed development is provided in Appendix C. The proposed land use
for Phase II of the development has been identified in Table 3.

                            Table 3: Phase II Project Land Uses
                                  Land Use                       Intensity

                                 Apartments                      397 Units

                               Weekly Rentals                    26 Units

                                Pet Grooming                    7,758 sq. ft.

                             Commercial / Retail               19,217 sq. ft.


C.     Trip Generation

Trip generation for Phase II of the development was calculated using trip generation rates
published in the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), Trip Generation, 10th Edition, 2017.
The weekly rental land use is not a current land use in the ITE trip generation datasets. It is
anticipated that they will act similarly to a hotel. For this reason, the hotel land use was used for
trip generation purposes. Additionally, pet grooming land uses are not listed, and to be
conservative, was substituted with a pet supply store. Trip generation for Phase II of the proposed
project is included in Table 4.

The total trip generation for Phase II of the development is as follows:
       • Morning Peak Hour Trips:                                    320
       • Evening Peak Hour Trips:                                    382




                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                                                Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                                Traffic Impact Study



                                                                       Table 4: Trip Generation
                                                                                 Trip Generation
                                                                       Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update
Morning Peak Hour                                                # of
                                                                                 Unit Type
                                                                                                          Trip       %       %        Trips      Trips    Total New
                          Land Use   1                          Units                                  Generation Entering Exiting   Entering   Exiting    AM Trips
  Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) (221)                           397           Dwelling Units               144     26%     74%        37        107           144
  Hotel (310)                                                     26               Rooms                    14      59%     41%         8         6            14
  Pet Supply Superstore (866)                                      8        1,000 Sq. Ft. GLA               0       50%     50%         0         0             0
  Shopping Center (820)                                           19        1,000 Sq. Ft. GLA               162     62%     38%        100        62           162
  Total                                                                                                     320                        145       175           320
Evening Peak Hour                                                # of
                                                                                 Unit Type
                                                                                                          Trip       %       %        Trips      Trips    Total New
                          Land Use1                             Units                                  Generation Entering Exiting   Entering   Exiting    PM Trips
  Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) (221)                           397           Dwelling Units               176     61%     39%        107        69           176
  Hotel (310)                                                     26               Rooms                    16      51%     49%         8         8            16
  Pet Supply Superstore (866)                                      8        1,000 Sq. Ft. GLA               28      50%     50%        14         14           28
  Shopping Center (820)                                           19        1,000 Sq. Ft. GLA               162     48%     52%        78         84           162
  Total                                                                                                     382                        207       175           382
1. Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation ,10th Edition,2017.

SOURCE: Hales Engineering, January 2021


           D.           Trip Distribution and Assignment

           Project traffic is assigned to the roadway network based on the type of trip and the proximity of
           project access points to major streets, high population densities, and regional trip attractions.
           Existing travel patterns observed during data collection also provide helpful guidance to
           establishing these distribution percentages, especially near the site. The resulting distribution of
           project generated trips during the evening peak hour is shown in Table 5.

                                                                       Table 5: Trip Distribution
                                                                   Direction               % To/From Project

                                                                       North                           20%

                                                                       South                           10%

                                                                        East                           45%

                                                                        West                           25%


           These trip distribution assumptions were used to assign the evening peak hour generated traffic
           at the study intersections to create trip assignment for the proposed development. Trip
           assignment for Phase II of the development is shown in Figure 5.




                                                                                                                                                          11
Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                          Evening Peak Hour
Phase II Trip Assignment                                                                                                                           Figure 5


                                0




                           41
                                0




                           0
                           0
                                93


             12300 South    0                                                                                                                                              12300 South




                                44
                                35
                                79
                            0
                           52




                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                  0
                                            5 58
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                    Access 7




                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                    4
                                             1
                                                                  s
                                                             Acces                                                                   3
                                     1860

                                                        West

                                                   5
                                                    0
                                                    Lone
                                                         Peak




                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                      0
                                                              Park




                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                        Access 6




                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                            way




                                                                                                                                         3




                                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                         Access 5

                                                                                                                                             0


                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                         10  0
                                                                                                                                          0



                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                         10




                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                           Access 1




                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                         10




                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                  0
                                      0




                                                                                                0
                                     5




                                               0
                                    0




                                               0                                                2                                2
                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                     2
                                                                     0




                                               4                                                0                                0
                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                0                                    4                              2                                        2
           12650 South
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                      10




                                0                                    2                              0                                        0
                                0                                    0
                                                                         West Business Access




                                                                                                          East Business Access
                                              0
                                             5
                                            6




                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                                 Pony Express Drive
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                         801.766.4343
120 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                                 04/28/2021
                                                                                           Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                           Traffic Impact Study



E.     Access

The proposed access for the site will be gained at the following locations (see also concept plan
in Appendix C, spacing is measured from edge of radius to center of new access, per Draper City
standards):

12650 South:
      • Access 1 will be located directly across from the West Business Access. It will access
         the project on the north side of 12650 South. This access is approximately 230 away
         from Pony Express Drive, so it meets Draper City minimum access spacing standards
         for local streets. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled and that it will
         be constructed as a part of Phase I.

Pony Express Drive:
      • Access 2 will be located approximately 65 feet north of the 12650 South / Pony
          Express Drive intersection. This spacing does not meet Draper City minimum access
          spacing standards for local streets, but the access is currently under construction. It
          will access the project on the west side of Pony Express Drive. It is anticipated that
          the access will be stop-controlled and that it will be constructed as a part of Phase I.
      • Access 3 will be located approximately 155 feet north of Access 2, which meets Draper
          city access standards. It will access the project on the west side of Pony Express Drive.
          It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled and that it will be constructed as
          a part of Phase I.
      • Access 4 will be located approximately 190 feet north of Access 3, which meets Draper
          access standards. It will access the project on the west side of Pony Express Drive. It
          is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled and that it will be constructed as
          a part of Phase I.
      • Access 5 will be located approximately 170 feet north of Access 4, which meets Draper
          access standards. It will access the project on the west side of Pony Express Drive. It
          is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled and that it will be constructed as
          a part of Phase I.
      • Access 6 will be located approximately 330 feet north of Access 5, which meets Draper
          access standards. It will access the project on the west side of Pony Express Drive. It
          is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled and that it will be constructed as
          a part of Phase II.
      • Access 7 will be located approximately 490 feet north of Access 6, which meets Draper
          access standards. It will access the project on the west side of Pony Express Drive. It
          is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled and that it will be constructed as
          a part of Phase II.

Lone Peak Parkway:
      • The West Access is planned to be the main access into and out of the development
         as a part of Phase II. The access is planned to be located approximately 700 feet
         south of the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection, which meets

                                                                                                   13
                                                                             Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                            Traffic Impact Study


Draper City minimum spacing standards for arterial streets. It is anticipated that the
access will be stop-controlled and that some Phase I traffic will use it when it is
constructed. Separate left- and right-turn lanes are recommended on the westbound
approach and a left-turn lane is recommended on the southbound approach.




                                                                                    14
                                                                                        Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study



              IV. EXISTING (2021) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the existing (2021) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways
during the peak travel periods of the day for existing background traffic and geometric conditions
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on background traffic conditions.

B.     Traffic Volumes

Hales Engineering added the Phase II project trips discussed in Chapter III to the existing (2021)
background traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes for existing (2021) plus project
conditions. Background volumes at the current project site were removed in the process. It was
also assumed that Lone Peak Parkway would need to be realigned, per current Draper City Plans,
for the West Access to be complete. Some Phase I trips were rerouted through the West Access,
as shown in Figure 6. Existing (2021) plus project evening peak hour turning movement volumes
are shown in Figure 7.

C.     Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that the West Access / Lone Peak Parkway intersection is
anticipated to operate at a poor LOS during the evening peak hour with project traffic added, as
shown in Table 6.

D.     Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
Some significant queuing is anticipated during the evening peak hour at the Lone Peak Parkway
/ 12300 South intersection (575 feet, southbound approach and 725 feet, eastbound approach).

E.     Mitigation Measures

No mitigation measures are recommended. Drivers will learn to adapt and reroute.




                                                                                                15
Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                 Evening Peak Hour
Rerouted Phase I Trip Assignment                                                                                                          Figure 6

                               0




                          28
                               0




                          0
                          0
                               62


            12300 South    0                                                                                                                                      12300 South




                               21
                               17
                               39
                           0
                          34




                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                            0


                                          0 2
                                                                                          Access 7




                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                           4
                                                              s
                                                         Acces                                                              0
                                                    West
                                    64
                                     60




                                                0 Lone
                                                 35
                                                   Peak




                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             0
                                                     Parkw




                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                               Access 6




                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                          ay




                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                Access 5

                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                                    0                        7
                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                  Access 1




                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                             14
                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                11




                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                         3
                                   60
                                    0




                                                                                      0
                                   0




                                            35
                                                                                      9                                 9
                                                           30




                                            0
                                                                                                                                    5
                                                            0
                                                            0




                                                                                                                                    9




                                            4                                         0                                 0
                                                                                                                                                             19
                                                                                                                                                             8




                               0                          47                              20                                    20
          12650 South
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                             7




                               0                          20                               0                                     0
                               0                           0
                                                               West Business Access
                                            0




                                                                                                 East Business Access
                                           0
                                          7




                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0


                                                                                                                                        Pony Express Drive
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      0




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                801.766.4343
120 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                        04/28/2021
Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                                Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2021) Plus Project                                                                                                                             Figure 7

                                   267




                           179
                           195
                           427
                                   1326
                                   457


             12300 South    162                                                                                                                                                  12300 South




                                  138
                                  178
                                  593
                           1374
                             98




                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                       0
                                               5 00
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                          Access 7




                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                2
                                                                  s
                                                             Acces                                                                         3
                                       2500
                                                        West
                                        45




                                                      5 8
                                                       60




                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                            Lone Peak Parkway




                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                              Access 6




                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                               Access 5

                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                               14  4
                                                                                                                                                0



                                                                                                                                                   0                        19
                                                                                                                                                                            7

                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                               17



                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                   Access 1




                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                            26
                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                               21




                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                        270
                                        20
                                       117




                                                  113                                                   0                               3
                                                                                                                                                   13




                                                                                                        111                            99
                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                32




                                                  28
                                                                                 0
                                                                                 0




                                                  11                                                    0                              7
                                                                                                                                                                            31
                                                                                                                                                                            8




                                  15                                    51                               65                                    22
           12650 South
                                                                                                                                                                            95
                                                                                                                                                                            17




                                  10                                    67                                2                                    48
                                  57                                    33
                                                                                 West Business Access
                                                53




                                                                                                                East Business Access
                                              384
                                              19




                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                       12


                                                                                                                                                       Pony Express Drive
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        12




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                               801.766.4343
120 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                                       04/28/2021
                                                                                                                                           Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                           Traffic Impact Study



                    Table 6: Existing (2021) Plus Project Evening Peak Hour LOS

                                      Intersection                                                                  Level of Service

                                                                                                                            Aver. Delay
                           Description                                          Control              Movement1                                 LOS2
                                                                                                                            (Sec. / Veh.)

   Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71)                                     Signal                      -                    47.5          D

          12650 South / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBL                      4.6           a

          12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway                                        AWSC                        -                     7.2          A

 W Business Access & Access 1 / 12650 South                                  NB/SB Stop                   NBL                      5.2           a

         East Business Access / 12650 South                                     NB Stop                   NBL                      5.1           a

             Access 2 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.6           a

             Access 3 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.8           a

             Access 4 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.6           a

             Access 5 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.3           a

             Access 6 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.2           a

             Access 7 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.8           a

          West Access / Lone Peak Parkway                                      WB Stop                    SWL                     >50            f
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, April 2021




                                                                                                                                                     18
                                                                                        Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study



                V. FUTURE (2026) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the future (2026) background analysis is to study the intersections and roadways
during the peak travel periods of the day for future background traffic and geometric conditions.
Through this analysis, future background traffic operational deficiencies can be identified, and
potential mitigation measures recommended.

B.     Roadway Network

According to the Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Regional Transportation Plan, Lone
Peak Parkway is planned to be widened to a five-lane cross-section in the study area. This project
is planned to be completed before the year 2026. These changes were made to the roadway
network for the future (2026) analysis.

C.     Traffic Volumes

Hales Engineering obtained future (2026) forecasted volumes from the Wasatch Front Regional
Council (WFRC) / Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG) travel demand model. Peak
period turning movement counts were estimated using National Cooperative Highway Research
Program (NCHRP) 255 methodologies which utilize existing peak period turn volumes and future
average weekday daily traffic (AWDT) volumes to project the future turn volumes at the major
intersections. Future (2026) evening peak hour turning movement volumes are shown in Figure
8.

D.     Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection
is anticipated to operate at a poor LOS during the evening peak hour in future (2026) background
conditions, as shown in Table 7. These results serve as a baseline condition for the impact
analysis of the proposed development for future (2026) conditions.

E.     Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
Some significant queuing is anticipated during the evening peak hour at the Lone Peak Parkway
/ 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection (500 feet, northbound approach and 925 feet, eastbound
approach).




                                                                                                19
                                                                                       Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                      Traffic Impact Study



F.     Mitigation Measures

It is recommended that dual left-turn lanes and a separate right-turn pocket be installed on the
westbound approach of the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection. It is also
recommended that dual right-turn lanes be constructed on the northbound approach.

With the proposed improvements, it is anticipated that all study intersections will operate at an
acceptable LOS, as shown in Table 8.




                                                                                              20
Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                              Evening Peak Hour
Future (2026) Background                                                                                                               Figure 8

                                   305




                           200
                           198
                           490
                                   1385
                                   442


             12300 South    180                                                                                                                         12300 South




                                  684
                                  187
                                  116
                           1440
                             54




                                                     Lon
                                                        e
                                                       Pea




                                                                                                                                   Pony Express Drive
                                                           kP
                                                             arkw
                                                              ay




                                                                                                                              75
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                 Access 5

                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                                              85
                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                               0             32
                                                                                                                                             9

                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                              90



                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                      Access 1




                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                              41
                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                              95




                                                                                                                        0
                                        365




                                                                                                                               0
                                        25
                                       194




                                                 217                                       0                             5
                                                                                                                              15




                                                                                           185                          170
                                                                                                                              85
                                                               61




                                                 30
                                                                0
                                                                0




                                                 14                                        0                            10
                                                                                                                                                  49
                                                                                                                                                  8




                                  20                        101                             85                                45
           12650 South
                                                                                                                                                   95
                                                                                                                                                   12




                                  15                         90                              5                                50
                                  60                         35
                                                                    West Business Access




                                                                                                 East Business Access
                                                55
                                              550
                                               17




                                                                                                                        10
                                                                                                                        15
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           0
                                                                                           15




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                       801.766.4343
120 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                               04/28/2021
                                                                                                                                           Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                           Traffic Impact Study



                      Table 7: Future (2026) Background Evening Peak Hour LOS

                                      Intersection                                                                  Level of Service

                                                                                                                            Aver. Delay
                           Description                                          Control              Movement1                                 LOS2
                                                                                                                            (Sec. / Veh.)

   Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71)                                     Signal                      -                    57.7          E

          12650 South / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBL                      5.0           a

          12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway                                        AWSC                        -                    15.4          C

 W Business Access & Access 1 / 12650 South                                  NB/SB Stop                   NBL                      6.2           a

         East Business Access / 12650 South                                     NB Stop                   NBL                      4.6           a

             Access 2 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      3.0           a

             Access 3 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.7           a

             Access 4 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.8           a

             Access 5 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.7           a
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, April 2021




                                                                                                                                                     22
                                                                                                                                           Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                           Traffic Impact Study



            Table 8: Mitigated Future (2026) Background Evening Peak Hour LOS

                                      Intersection                                                                  Level of Service

                                                                                                                            Aver. Delay
                           Description                                          Control              Movement1                                 LOS2
                                                                                                                            (Sec. / Veh.)

   Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71)                                     Signal                      -                    36.7          D

          12650 South / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBL                      5.2           a

          12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway                                        AWSC                        -                     8.3          A

 W Business Access & Access 1 / 12650 South                                  NB/SB Stop                   NBL                      6.6           a

         East Business Access / 12650 South                                     NB Stop                   NBL                      4.9           a

             Access 2 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      3.0           a

             Access 3 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.7           a

             Access 4 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.5           a

             Access 5 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.8           a
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, April 2021




                                                                                                                                                     23
                                                                                        Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study



               VI. FUTURE (2026) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the future (2026) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways
during the peak travel periods of the day for future background traffic and geometric conditions
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on future background traffic conditions.

B.     Traffic Volumes

Hales Engineering added the Phase II project trips discussed in Chapter III to the future (2026)
background traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes for future (2026) plus project
conditions. Future (2026) plus project evening peak hour turning movement volumes are shown
in Figure 9.

C.     Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that the West Access / Lone Peak Parkway intersection is
anticipated to operate at a poor LOS during the evening peak hour in future (2026) plus project
conditions, as shown in Table 9.

D.     Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
Some significant queuing is anticipated during the evening peak hour at the Lone Peak Parkway
/ 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection (575 feet, eastbound approach).

E.     Mitigation Measures

No mitigation measures are recommended.




                                                                                                24
Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                                Evening Peak Hour
Future (2026) Plus Project                                                                                                                               Figure 9

                                       305




                           200
                           234
                           490
                                       1385
                                       525



             12300 South    180                                                                                                                                                  12300 South




                                  155
                                  212
                                  718
                           1440
                            101




                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                5 00
                                                                                                                                           0


                                                 2
                                                                                                          Access 7




                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                ccess                                                                      3
                                        2500
                                                         West A
                                         56




                                                       5 5
                                                        78




                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                             Lone Peak Parkway




                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                              Access 6




                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                               Access 5

                                                                                                                                                   0



                                                                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                               14
                                                                                                                                                0


                                                                                                                                                   0                        19
                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                               17



                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                   Access 1




                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                            26
                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                21




                                                                                                                                       0
                                       370




                                                                                                                                                 0
                                        25
                                       120




                                                   115                                                  0                               3
                                                                                                                                                   13




                                                                                                        111                            96
                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                            32




                                                   30
                                                                             0
                                                                             0




                                                   13                                                   0                              10
                                                                                                                                                                            31
                                                                                                                                                                            8




                                  20                                 51                                  62                                     22
           12650 South
                                                                                                                                                                            95
                                                                                                                                                                            17




                                  15                                 67                                   5                                     50
                                  60                                 35
                                                                                 West Business Access




                                                                                                                East Business Access
                                                 55
                                               555




                                                                                                                                       10
                                               18




                                                                                                                                       15


                                                                                                                                                       Pony Express Drive
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        15




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                               801.766.4343
120 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                                       04/28/2021
                                                                                                                                           Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                           Traffic Impact Study



                      Table 9: Future (2026) Plus Project Evening Peak Hour LOS

                                      Intersection                                                                  Level of Service

                                                                                                                            Aver. Delay
                           Description                                          Control              Movement1                                 LOS2
                                                                                                                            (Sec. / Veh.)

   Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71)                                     Signal                      -                    40.0          D

          12650 South / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBL                      4.6           a

          12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway                                        AWSC                        -                     6.8          A

 W Business Access & Access 1 / 12650 South                                  NB/SB Stop                   NBL                      5.2           a

         East Business Access / 12650 South                                     NB Stop                   NBL                      4.6           a

             Access 2 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.3           a

             Access 3 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.4           a

             Access 4 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.3           a

             Access 5 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.8           a

             Access 6 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.3           a

             Access 7 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.4           a

          West Access / Lone Peak Parkway                                      WB Stop                    SWL                     >50            f
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, April 2021




                                                                                                                                                     26
                                                                                        Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study



               VII. FUTURE (2050) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the future (2050) background analysis is to study the intersections and roadways
during the peak travel periods of the day for future background traffic and geometric conditions.
Through this analysis, future background traffic operational deficiencies can be identified, and
potential mitigation measures recommended.

B.     Roadway Network

According to the Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Regional Transportation Plan, 12300
South (S.R. 71) is planned to be widened to six lanes. For this reason, the eastbound lane
configuration at the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection was changed from
two thru lanes with a shared thru/right-turn pocket to three thru lanes with a separate right-turn
pocket. Additionally, based on UDOT signal warrants, the 12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway
intersection was assumed to be signalized with southbound permissive/protected left-turn
phasing.

C.     Traffic Volumes

Hales Engineering obtained future (2050) forecasted volumes from the WFRC / MAG travel
demand model. Peak period turning movement counts were estimated using National
Cooperative Highway Research Program (NCHRP) 255 methodologies which utilize existing peak
period turn volumes and future average weekday daily traffic (AWDT) volumes to project the
future turn volumes at the major intersections. Future (2050) background evening peak hour
turning movement volumes are shown in Figure 10.

D.     Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection
is anticipated to operate at a poor LOS during the evening peak hour in future (2050) background
conditions, as shown in Table 10. These results serve as a baseline condition for the impact
analysis of the proposed development for future (2050) conditions.

E.     Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
Some significant queuing is anticipated during the evening peak hour at the Lone Peak Parkway
/ 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection (1,500 feet, eastbound approach, 1,000 feet, southbound
approach, and 725 feet, northbound approach).




                                                                                                27
                                                                                          Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                          Traffic Impact Study



F.     Mitigation Measures

It is recommended that UDOT study the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection
and the surrounding area for the best course of action. UDOT could consider implementing an
innovative intersection, such as a continuous flow intersection (CFI). For this analysis, a mitigated
scenario was completed assuming that the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71)
intersection has sufficient capacity to handle the demands.

For the mitigated scenario, it was assumed that the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71)
intersection has sufficient capacity to handle demand. This was modeled by removing the
intersection. The mitigated scenario was completed to determine if other intersections within the
study area are anticipated to have any issues.

As shown in Table 11, all study intersections are anticipated to perform at acceptable levels of
service, assuming the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71) intersection functions well.
No significant queueing is anticipated within the study area.




                                                                                                  28
Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                             Evening Peak Hour
Future (2050) Background                                                                                                             Figure 10

                                      340




                          245
                          273
                          540
                                      1850
                                      602


            12300 South    220                                                                                                                         12300 South




                                 949
                                 257
                                 166
                          1920
                            59




                                                    Lon
                                                       e
                                                      Pea




                                                                                                                                  Pony Express Drive
                                                          kP
                                                            arkw
                                                             ay




                                                                                                                             75
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                Access 5

                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                         20
                                                                                                                                         12
                                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                                             85
                                                                                                                              0



                                                                                                                              0             32
                                                                                                                                            9

                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                             90



                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                     Access 1




                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                             41
                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                             95




                                                                                                                       0
                                      605




                                                                                                                              0
                                      194
                                       25




                                                217                                       0                             5
                                                                                                                             15




                                                                                          185                          170
                                                                                                                             85
                                                             61




                                                30
                                                              0
                                                              0




                                                14                                        0                            10
                                                                                                                                                 49
                                                                                                                                                 8




                                 75                        101                            105                                45
          12650 South
                                                                                                                                                  95
                                                                                                                                                  12




                                 35                        110                              5                                70
                                 65                         35
                                                                   West Business Access




                                                                                                East Business Access
                                               75
                                             880




                                                                                                                       10
                                             17




                                                                                                                       15
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          15




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                      801.766.4343
120 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                              04/28/2021
                                                                                                                                           Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                           Traffic Impact Study



                     Table 10: Future (2050) Background Evening Peak Hour LOS

                                      Intersection                                                                  Level of Service

                                                                                                                            Aver. Delay
                           Description                                          Control              Movement1                                 LOS2
                                                                                                                            (Sec. / Veh.)

   Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South (S.R. 71)                                     Signal                      -                    >80            F

          12650 South / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBL                      5.6           a

          12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway                                        Signal                      -                    12.5          B

 W Business Access & Access 1 / 12650 South                                  NB/SB Stop                   NBL                      7.0           a

         East Business Access / 12650 South                                     NB Stop                   NBL                      5.6           a

             Access 2 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      3.5           a

             Access 3 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.5           a

             Access 4 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.6           a

             Access 5 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.9           a
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, April 2021




                                                                                                                                                     30
                                                                                                                                           Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                           Traffic Impact Study



           Table 11: Mitigated Future (2050) Background Evening Peak Hour LOS

                                      Intersection                                                                  Level of Service

                                                                                                                            Aver. Delay
                           Description                                          Control              Movement1                                 LOS2
                                                                                                                            (Sec. / Veh.)

          12650 South / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBL                      5.3           a

          12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway                                        Signal                      -                    10.4          B

 W Business Access & Access 1 / 12650 South                                  NB/SB Stop                   NBL                      5.9           a

         East Business Access / 12650 South                                     NB Stop                   NBL                      5.3           a

             Access 2 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      3.4           a

             Access 3 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.3           a

             Access 4 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.8           a

             Access 5 / Pony Express Drive                                      EB Stop                   EBR                      2.7           a
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, April 2021




                                                                                                                                                     31
                                                                                        Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study



              VIII. FUTURE (2050) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the future (2050) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways
during the peak travel periods of the day for future background traffic and geometric conditions
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on future background traffic conditions.

B.     Traffic Volumes

Hales Engineering added the Phase II project trips discussed in Chapter III to the future (2050)
background traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes for future (2050) plus project
conditions. Future (2050) plus project evening peak hour turning movement volumes are shown
in Figure 11.

C.     Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that the West Access / Lone Peak Parkway intersection is
anticipated to operate at a poor LOS during the evening peak hour in future (2050) plus project
conditions, as shown in Table 12.

D.     Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
No significant queuing is anticipated during the evening peak hour.

E.     Mitigation Measures

No mitigation measures are recommended.

F.     Recommended Storage Lengths

Hales Engineering determined recommended storage lengths based on the 95th percentile queue
lengths given in the future (2050) plus project scenario. These storage lengths do not include the
taper length. Recommended storage lengths for the study intersections are shown in Table 13.
Intersections shown in Table 13 include new intersections and existing intersections that have
recommended storage length changes.




                                                                                                32
Draper - Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                         Evening Peak Hour
Future (2050) Plus Project                                                                                                                       Figure 11




                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                0
                                         5 00
                                                                                                                                    0

                                          2
                                                                                                   Access 7




                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                          ccess                                                     3
                                 2500
                                                  West A
                                  80




                                                5 0
                                                 97




                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                    0
                                                      Lone Peak Parkway




                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                     8
                                                                                                       Access 6




                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                                                                                        10
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                        Access 5

                                                                                                                                            0


                                                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                        14  4
                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                            0                        19
                                                                                                                                                                     7

                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                        17



                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                            Access 1




                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                     26
                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                        21




                                                                                                                                0
                                 610




                                                                                                                                         0
                                  25
                                 120




                                            115                                                  0                               3
                                                                                                                                            13




                                                                                                 111                            96
                                                                                                                                            11
                                                                     32




                                            30
                                                                      0
                                                                      0




                                            13                                                   0                              10
                                                                                                                                                                     31
                                                                                                                                                                     8




                            75                                 51                                 82                                     22
           12650 South
                                                                                                                                                                     95
                                                                                                                                                                     17




                            35                                 87                                  5                                     70
                            65                                 35
                                                                          West Business Access




                                                                                                         East Business Access
                                          75
                                        885




                                                                                                                                10
                                         18




                                                                                                                                15


                                                                                                                                                Pony Express Drive
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 15




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                        801.766.4343
120 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                                04/28/2021
                                                                                                                                                        Draper - Tri-View II
                                                                                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study



                             Table 12: Future (2050) Plus Project Evening Peak Hour LOS

                                              Intersection                                                                  Level of Service

                                                                                                                                      Aver. Delay
                                   Description                                          Control               Movement1                                      LOS2
                                                                                                                                      (Sec. / Veh.)

                   12650 South / Pony Express Drive                                     EB Stop                    EBL                     5.1                    a

                   12650 South / Lone Peak Parkway                                          Signal                      -                  8.4                    A

          W Business Access & Access 1 / 12650 South                                   NB/SB Stop                  NBL                     5.8                    a

                 East Business Access / 12650 South                                     NB Stop                    NBL                     5.1                    a

                      Access 2 / Pony Express Drive                                     EB Stop                    EBR                     2.5                    a

                      Access 3 / Pony Express Drive                                     EB Stop                    EBR                     2.4                    a

                      Access 4 / Pony Express Drive                                     EB Stop                    EBR                     2.3                    a

                      Access 5 / Pony Express Drive                                     EB Stop                    EBR                     2.6                    a

                      Access 6 / Pony Express Drive                                     EB Stop                    EBR                     2.4                    a

                      Access 7 / Pony Express Drive                                     EB Stop                    EBR                     2.4                    a

                   West Access / Lone Peak Parkway                                      WB Stop                    SWL                    >50                     f
        1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
        2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for all other unsignalized intersections.

        Source: Hales Engineering, April 2021

                                               Table 13: Recommended Storage Lengths
                                                                                                Recommended Storage Lengths (feet)
                                                                         Northbound                  Southbound                  Eastbound                   Westbound
                        Intersection
                                                                         LT            RT            LT            RT            LT            RT            LT                RT
                                                                     E        P    E        P   E         P   E         P   E         P   E         P    E        P        E        P
1            West Access / Lone Peak Parkway                         -        -    -        -    -    150      -        -    -        -    -        -    -        -        -    150
 1. Storage lengths are based on 2040 95th percentile queue lengths and do not include required deceleration / taper distances
 2. E = Existing storage length (approximate), if applicable; P = proposed storage length for new turn lanes or changes to existing turn lanes, if applicable
Source: Hales Engineering, January 2021




                                                                                                                                                                      34
                   Draper - Tri-View II
                   Traffic Impact Study




APPENDIX A
Turning Movement Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                801.636.0891


                                                                                              Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 S                                                                                                          Date:                                                1-19-21, Tue
        North/South: Lone Peak Parkway                                                                                                             Day of Week Adjustment:                              100.0%
           East/West: 12300 S                                                                                                                      Month of Year Adjustment:                            100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                              Adjustment Station #:                                      0
Project Title: Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                              Growth Rate:                                           0.0%
  Project No: UT21-1826                                                                                                                            Number of Years:                                           0
    Weather: Clear

                             AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:30 AM-8:30 AM
                         AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:00 AM                                                                       1310
                                           AM PHF: 0.84
                                                                                                                                         1433
                         MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -




                                                                                                                                                           Lone Peak Parkway
                     MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                       MIDDAY PHF:                                                                             745                  565


                             PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM                                                               551                 882
                         PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:15 PM-4:30 PM
                                           PM PHF: 0.92                                                                 179    139           427


                                                                                          0                             150     130          271
                                                                                                                                                                                17               6
                                                                                          2
                                                              12300 S

                                                                                                                          Total Entering Vehicles                              448              267
                                     1583              1167                                                                           4202                                     961             1326               1712            1901
3134          2615                                                      162               245                                                                                  303              308                                             3396   4312
                                     1551              1448             1374             1167                                         5021                                                                        1684            2411
                                                                        15                36


                                                                                                                                                                                              12300 S
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                         0                0                                     56           189    246
                                                                                                                                                                                0                                        Legend
                                                                                                                                78           136    610
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AM
                                                                                                                        469                  491                                                                         Midday
                                                                                                Lone Peak Parkway




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PM
                                                                                                                        462                  824



                                                                                                                                960


                                                                                                                               1286



                                            Lone Peak Parkway                  Lone Peak Parkway                                 12300 S                                         12300 S
                     RAW COUNT
                                                Northbound                         Southbound                                   Eastbound                                       Westbound               TOTAL
                     SUMMARIES
                                     Left       Thru    Right Peds      Left      Thru    Right Peds                    Left   Thru   Right         Peds   Left                Thru   Right    Peds

                     AM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A      B            C       D        E         F      G                         H    I       J           K       L      M                   N       O       P       TOTAL
                       7:00 - 7:15   3    13            27      0        10        20     5                         0   25      217           6      0      46                 128      95      0         595
                       7:15 - 7:30   2    24            19      0        20        22     21                        2   53      264           9      0      39                 178      66      1         717
                       7:30 - 7:45   9    38            56      0        45        37     57                        0   76      298           8      0      68                 173     111      1         976
                       7:45 - 8:00  14    58            42      0       113        54     47                        2   54      301           6      0      74                 315     169      5        1247
                       8:00 - 8:15  18    48            83      0        81        20     35                        0   61      310          16      0      89                 256      79      10       1096
                       8:15 - 8:30  15    45            65      0        32        19     11                        0   54      258           6      0      72                 217      89      1         883
                       8:30 - 8:45  10    22            62      0        38        8      11                        0   27      235           4      0      68                 212      65      0         762
                       8:45 - 9:00  16    49            45      0        57        20     12                        0   50      309           2      0      76                 316     112      1        1064
                     MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A      B            C       D        E         F      G                         H    I       J            K      L       M                  N      O        P       TOTAL
                       9:00 - 9:15   0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                       9:15 - 9:30   0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                       9:30 - 9:45   0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                       9:45 - 10:00  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      10:00 - 10:15  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      10:15 - 10:30  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      10:30 - 10:45  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      10:45 - 11:00  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      11:00 - 11:15  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      11:15 - 11:30  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      11:30 - 11:45  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      11:45 - 12:00  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      12:00 - 12:15  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      12:15 - 12:30  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      12:30 - 12:45  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      12:45 - 13:00  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      13:00 - 13:15  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      13:15 - 13:30  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      13:30 - 13:45  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      13:45 - 14:00  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      14:00 - 14:15  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      14:15 - 14:30  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      14:30 - 14:45  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      14:45 - 15:00  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      15:00 - 15:15  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      15:15 - 15:30  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      15:30 - 15:45  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                      15:45 - 16:00  0     0            0       0        0         0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0         0
                     PM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A      B            C       D        E         F      G                         H    I       J            K      L      M                   N      O        P       TOTAL
                      16:00 - 16:15 23    32           152      0       128        36     66                        0   32      373           7      0      73                 361     76       1        1359
                      16:15 - 16:30 16    32           237      0        91        30     46                        0   41      360           2      0      73                 338     96       0        1362
                      16:30 - 16:45 28    48           96       0       112        35     39                        0   51      343           6      0      72                 332     51       0        1213
                      16:45 - 17:00 11    24           125      0        96        38     28                        0   38      298           0      0      90                 295     44       5        1087
                      17:00 - 17:15 19    120          137      0       137        59     34                        1   33      271           5      0      67                 392     47       1        1321
                      17:15 - 17:30  7    57           124      0        96        53     26                        0   37      374           2      0      73                 435     35       0        1319
                      17:30 - 17:45  8    25           124      0        83        49     32                        0   35      341           9      0      56                 408     37       1        1207
                      17:45 - 18:00 11    33           56       0        89        20     33                        0   39      284           0      0      62                 312     54       0         993
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  801.636.0891


                                                                                               Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: Lone Peak Parkway / 12650 South                                                                                                       Date:                                                  1-19-21, Tue
        North/South: Lone Peak Parkway                                                                                                              Day of Week Adjustment:                                100.0%
           East/West: 12650 South                                                                                                                   Month of Year Adjustment:                              100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                               Adjustment Station #:                                        0
Project Title: Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                               Growth Rate:                                             0.0%
  Project No: UT21-1826                                                                                                                             Number of Years:                                             0
    Weather: Clear

                             AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:30 AM-8:30 AM
                         AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:00 AM                                                                            886
                                           AM PHF: 0.85
                                                                                                                                              774
                         MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -




                                                                                                                                                            Lone Peak Parkway
                     MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                       MIDDAY PHF:                                                                              354                  532


                             PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM                                                                350                 424
                         PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:00 PM-4:15 PM
                                           PM PHF: 0.90                                                                  20     265           69


                                                                                           0                             20      180          150
                                                                                                                                                                                 0                0
                                                                                           0
                                                             12650 South

                                                                                                                           Total Entering Vehicles                               121             138
                                     101                101                                                                            941                                       16              28                  137            172
 183           191                                                         15              9                                                                                     0                6                                               317   259
                                     82                 90                 10              25                                          1048                                                                          180            87
                                                                           57              56


                                                                                                                                                                                             12650 South
                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                           0               0                                     65           294     5
                                                                                                                                                                                 0                                         Legend
                                                                                                                                 53           379     8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AM
                                                                                                                         236                  364                                                                          Midday
                                                                                                 Lone Peak Parkway




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PM
                                                                                                                         328                  440



                                                                                                                                 600


                                                                                                                                 768



                                            Lone Peak Parkway                   Lone Peak Parkway                               12650 South                                     12650 South
                     RAW COUNT
                                                Northbound                          Southbound                                   Eastbound                                       Westbound                 TOTAL
                     SUMMARIES
                                     Left       Thru    Right Peds     Left        Thru    Right Peds                    Left   Thru   Right         Peds   Left                Thru   Right    Peds

                     AM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A      B            C        D         E        F      G                         H    I       J           K       L       M                  N      O        P         TOTAL
                       7:00 - 7:15   4    25            0        0         31       28     0                         0    1       2            4      0       0                  1      11       0          107
                       7:15 - 7:30   7    46            2        0         24       42     5                         0    1       8            7      0       0                  0      8        0          150
                       7:30 - 7:45  12    79            2        0         31       40     4                         0    1       6           10      0       0                  1      11       0          197
                       7:45 - 8:00  19    86            2        0         43       56     4                         0    2       7           27      0       0                  7      24       0          277
                       8:00 - 8:15  18    66            0        0         47       55     4                         0    4      10           14      0       0                  6      53       0          277
                       8:15 - 8:30  16    63            1        0         29       29     8                         0    2       2            5      0       0                  2      33       0          190
                       8:30 - 8:45  22    79            3        0         17       26     8                         0    3       1            8      0       0                  3      14       0          184
                       8:45 - 9:00  15    77            0        0         12       37     6                         0    4       0            2      0       0                  2      10       0          165
                     MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A      B            C        D         E        F      G                         H    I       J            K      L       M                  N      O        P         TOTAL
                       9:00 - 9:15   0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                       9:15 - 9:30   0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                       9:30 - 9:45   0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                       9:45 - 10:00  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      10:00 - 10:15  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      10:15 - 10:30  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      10:30 - 10:45  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      10:45 - 11:00  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      11:00 - 11:15  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      11:15 - 11:30  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      11:30 - 11:45  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      11:45 - 12:00  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      12:00 - 12:15  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      12:15 - 12:30  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      12:30 - 12:45  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      12:45 - 13:00  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      13:00 - 13:15  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      13:15 - 13:30  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      13:30 - 13:45  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      13:45 - 14:00  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      14:00 - 14:15  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      14:15 - 14:30  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      14:30 - 14:45  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      14:45 - 15:00  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      15:00 - 15:15  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      15:15 - 15:30  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      15:30 - 15:45  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                      15:45 - 16:00  0     0            0        0         0        0      0                         0    0       0            0      0       0                  0      0        0           0
                     PM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A      B            C        D         E        F      G                         H    I       J           K       L       M                  N      O        P         TOTAL
                      16:00 - 16:15 19    81            3        0         23       79     11                        0    5       4           22      0       2                  8      35       0          292
                      16:15 - 16:30  9    100           1        0         15       59     6                         0    1       2            6      0       4                  8      30       0          241
                      16:30 - 16:45 10    109           3        0         16       72     1                         0    5       1           12      0       0                  5      29       0          263
                      16:45 - 17:00 15    89            1        0         15       55     2                         0    4       3           17      0       0                  7      44       0          252
                      17:00 - 17:15 14    98            2        0         18       80     3                         1    3       3           17      0       3                  6      44       0          291
                      17:15 - 17:30  9    77            2        0         18       69     2                         0    1       2           16      0       3                  3      18       0          220
                      17:30 - 17:45 10    84            3        0         11       68     3                         0    1       3           10      0       6                  0      25       0          224
                      17:45 - 18:00 12    71            3        0         11       66     2                         0    2       4           14      0       0                  2      17       0          204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                801.636.0891


                                                                                              Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: West Business Access / 12650 S                                                                                                      Date:                                                   1-19-21, Tue
        North/South: West Business Access                                                                                                         Day of Week Adjustment:                                 100.0%
           East/West: 12650 S                                                                                                                     Month of Year Adjustment:                               100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                             Adjustment Station #:                                         0
Project Title: Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                             Growth Rate:                                              0.0%
  Project No: UT21-1826                                                                                                                           Number of Years:                                              0
    Weather: Clear

                              AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM
                          AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:15 AM-7:30 AM                                                                          0
                                            AM PHF: 0.50
                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                          West Business Access
                          MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -
                      MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                        MIDDAY PHF:                                                                                0                0


                              PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 5:00 PM-6:00 PM                                                                  0               0
                          PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 5:30 PM-5:45 PM
                                            PM PHF: 0.70                                                                    0      0         0


                                                                                          0                                 0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0                0
                                                                                          0
                                                              12650 S

                                                                                                                             Total Entering Vehicles                              0                0
                                       12                 0                                                                             2                                         0                0                 1            0
 45             1                                                        0                0                                                                                       1                0                                            1   0
                                       33                 1              0                0                                             45                                                                           0            0
                                                                        33                1


                                                                                                                                                                                                12650 S
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                         0                0                                         0        0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0                                      Legend
                                                                                                                                   12        0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AM
                                                                                                West Business Access




                                                                                                                            2                0                                                                           Midday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PM
                                                                                                                           33                12



                                                                                                                                    2


                                                                                                                                   45



                                            West Business Access             West Business Access                                   12650 S                                        12650 S
                      RAW COUNT
                                                 Northbound                       Southbound                                       Eastbound                                      Westbound               TOTAL
                      SUMMARIES
                                      Left       Thru    Right  Peds    Left     Thru    Right  Peds                       Left   Thru   Right     Peds   Left                   Thru   Right    Peds

                     AM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A             B       C      D       E         F      G                            H    I       J        K      L       M                     N      O        P       TOTAL
                       7:00 - 7:15  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       7:15 - 7:30  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       1                     0      0        0         1
                       7:30 - 7:45  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       7:45 - 8:00  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        1      0       0                     0      0        0         1
                       8:00 - 8:15  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       8:15 - 8:30  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       8:30 - 8:45  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       8:45 - 9:00  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                     MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A             B       C      D       E         F      G                            H    I       J        K      L       M                     N      O        P       TOTAL
                       9:00 - 9:15  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       9:15 - 9:30  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       9:30 - 9:45  0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       9:45 - 10:00 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      10:00 - 10:15 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      10:15 - 10:30 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      10:30 - 10:45 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      10:45 - 11:00 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      11:00 - 11:15 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      11:15 - 11:30 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      11:30 - 11:45 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      11:45 - 12:00 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      12:00 - 12:15 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      12:15 - 12:30 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      12:30 - 12:45 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      12:45 - 13:00 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      13:00 - 13:15 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      13:15 - 13:30 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      13:30 - 13:45 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      13:45 - 14:00 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      14:00 - 14:15 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      14:15 - 14:30 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      14:30 - 14:45 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      14:45 - 15:00 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      15:00 - 15:15 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      15:15 - 15:30 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      15:30 - 15:45 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      15:45 - 16:00 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                     PM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A             B       C      D       E         F      G                            H    I       J        K      L       M                     N      O        P       TOTAL
                      16:00 - 16:15 7             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0         4     0       1                     0      0        0         12
                      16:15 - 16:30 2             0       1      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0         4     0       0                     0      0        0         7
                      16:30 - 16:45 3             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0         6     0       0                     0      0        0         9
                      16:45 - 17:00 0             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0         2     0       0                     0      0        0         2
                      17:00 - 17:15 1             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0         6     0       0                     0      0        0         7
                      17:15 - 17:30 3             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0         4     0       0                     0      0        0         7
                      17:30 - 17:45 6             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        10     0       0                     0      0        0         16
                      17:45 - 18:00 2             0       0      0       0         0      0                            0    0       0        13     0       0                     0      0        0         15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801.636.0891


                                                                                               Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: East Business Access / 12650 S                                                                                                       Date:                                                   1-19-21, Tue
        North/South: East Business Access                                                                                                          Day of Week Adjustment:                                 100.0%
           East/West: 12650 S                                                                                                                      Month of Year Adjustment:                               100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                              Adjustment Station #:                                         0
Project Title: Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                              Growth Rate:                                              0.0%
  Project No: UT21-1826                                                                                                                            Number of Years:                                              0
    Weather: Clear

                              AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:00 AM-8:00 AM
                          AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:00 AM-7:15 AM                                                                           0
                                            AM PHF: 0.25
                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                           East Business Access
                          MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -
                      MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                        MIDDAY PHF:                                                                                 0                0


                               PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:00 PM-5:00 PM                                                                  2               0
                           PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:15 PM-4:30 PM
                                             PM PHF: 0.57                                                                    0      0         0


                                                                                           0                                 2       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0                0
                                                                                           0
                                                               12650 S

                                                                                                                              Total Entering Vehicles                              0                0
                                       12                  2                                                                             2                                         0                0                 0            7
 13             2                                                         0                0                                                                                       0                7                                            0   12
                                        1                  0              0                0                                             25                                                                           0            5
                                                                          1                0


                                                                                                                                                                                                 12650 S
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                          0                0                                         0        0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0                                      Legend
                                                                                                                                    12        0      5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AM
                                                                                                 East Business Access




                                                                                                                             0                0                                                                           Midday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PM
                                                                                                                             8                17



                                                                                                                                     0


                                                                                                                                    25



                                             East Business Access             East Business Access                                   12650 S                                        12650 S
                      RAW COUNT
                                                  Northbound                       Southbound                                       Eastbound                                      Westbound               TOTAL
                      SUMMARIES
                                      Left        Thru    Right   Peds   Left     Thru    Right  Peds                       Left   Thru   Right     Peds   Left                   Thru   Right    Peds

                     AM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A              B       C       D      E        F      G                             H    I       J        K      L       M                     N      O        P       TOTAL
                       7:00 - 7:15  0              0       0       0      0        0      2                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         2
                       7:15 - 7:30  0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       7:30 - 7:45  0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       7:45 - 8:00  0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       8:00 - 8:15  0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       1                     0      0        0         1
                       8:15 - 8:30  0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       8:30 - 8:45  0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       8:45 - 9:00  0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                     MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A              B       C       D      E        F      G                             H    I       J        K      L       M                     N      O        P       TOTAL
                       9:00 - 9:15  0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       9:15 - 9:30  0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       9:30 - 9:45  0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                       9:45 - 10:00 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      10:00 - 10:15 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      10:15 - 10:30 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      10:30 - 10:45 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      10:45 - 11:00 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      11:00 - 11:15 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      11:15 - 11:30 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      11:30 - 11:45 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      11:45 - 12:00 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      12:00 - 12:15 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      12:15 - 12:30 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      12:30 - 12:45 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      12:45 - 13:00 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      13:00 - 13:15 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      13:15 - 13:30 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      13:30 - 13:45 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      13:45 - 14:00 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      14:00 - 14:15 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      14:15 - 14:30 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      14:30 - 14:45 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      14:45 - 15:00 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      15:00 - 15:15 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      15:15 - 15:30 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      15:30 - 15:45 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                      15:45 - 16:00 0              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       0                     0      0        0         0
                     PM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A              B       C       D      E        F      G                             H    I       J        K      L       M                     N      O        P       TOTAL
                      16:00 - 16:15 1              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       5                     0      0        0         6
                      16:15 - 16:30 7              0       3       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       1                     0      0        0         11
                      16:30 - 16:45 1              0       2       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       1                     0      0        0         4
                      16:45 - 17:00 3              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        1      0       0                     0      0        0         4
                      17:00 - 17:15 1              0       2       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       3                     0      0        0         6
                      17:15 - 17:30 3              0       0       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        0      0       1                     0      0        0         4
                      17:30 - 17:45 2              0       2       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        1      0       2                     0      0        0         7
                      17:45 - 18:00 1              0       1       0      0        0      0                             0    0       0        1      0       2                     0      0        0         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801.636.0891


                                                                                                Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: Pony Express Drive / 12650 S                                                                                                           Date:                                                 1-19-21, Tue
        North/South: Pony Express Drive                                                                                                              Day of Week Adjustment:                               100.0%
           East/West: 12650 S                                                                                                                        Month of Year Adjustment:                             100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                                Adjustment Station #:                                       0
Project Title: Tri-View II TIS Update                                                                                                                Growth Rate:                                            0.0%
  Project No: UT21-1826                                                                                                                              Number of Years:                                            0
    Weather: Clear

                              AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:30 AM-8:30 AM
                          AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 8:00 AM-8:15 AM                                                                            92
                                            AM PHF: 0.74
                                                                                                                                               19
                          MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -




                                                                                                                                                             Pony Express Drive
                      MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                        MIDDAY PHF:                                                                                73                  19


                              PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 4:15 PM-5:15 PM                                                                  5                  14
                          PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 4:45 PM-5:00 PM
                                            PM PHF: 0.85                                                                   63      10          0


                                                                                            0                               4       1          0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0                0
                                                                                            0
                                                               12650 S

                                                                                                                             Total Entering Vehicles                               0                0
                                      158                134                                                                             303                                       0                0                 0            0
 220           297                                                       14                 9                                                                                      0                0                                            0   0
                                       62                163              0                 0                                            235                                                                          0            0
                                                                         48                154


                                                                                                                                                                                                 12650 S
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                          0                 0                                      130         5       0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0                                      Legend
                                                                                                                                   95          5       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AM
                                                                                                                           155                 135                                                                        Midday
                                                                                                  Pony Express Drive




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PM
                                                                                                                           58                  100



                                                                                                                                   290


                                                                                                                                   158



                                             Pony Express Drive                 Pony Express Drive                                  12650 S                                         12650 S
                      RAW COUNT
                                                 Northbound                         Southbound                                     Eastbound                                       Westbound               TOTAL
                      SUMMARIES
                                      Left      Thru     Right  Peds     Left      Thru    Right  Peds                     Left   Thru   Right        Peds   Left                 Thru   Right    Peds

                     AM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A             B       C      D        E         F       G                          H    I       J          K       L       M                   N      O        P       TOTAL
                       7:00 - 7:15  13            3       0      0        0         1       4                          0   10       0          19      0       0                   0      0        0         50
                       7:15 - 7:30   7            1       0      0        0         0       2                          0   4        0          22      0       0                   0      0        0         36
                       7:30 - 7:45  11            0       0      0        0         0       2                          0   4        0          30      0       0                   0      0        0         47
                       7:45 - 8:00  34            3       0      0        0         1       1                          0   2        0          48      0       0                   0      0        0         89
                       8:00 - 8:15  52            0       0      0        0         0       1                          0   1        0          49      0       0                   0      0        0        103
                       8:15 - 8:30  33            2       0      0        0         0       0                          0   2        0          27      0       0                   0      0        0         64
                       8:30 - 8:45  10            1       0      0        0         1       3                          0   3        0          16      0       0                   0      0        0         34
                       8:45 - 9:00   9            1       0      0        0         0       3                          0   5        0           8      0       0                   0      0        0         26
                     MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A             B       C      D        E         F       G                          H    I       J          K       L       M                   N      O        P       TOTAL
                       9:00 - 9:15   0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                       9:15 - 9:30   0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                       9:30 - 9:45   0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                       9:45 - 10:00  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      10:00 - 10:15  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      10:15 - 10:30  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      10:30 - 10:45  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      10:45 - 11:00  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      11:00 - 11:15  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      11:15 - 11:30  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      11:30 - 11:45  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      11:45 - 12:00  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      12:00 - 12:15  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      12:15 - 12:30  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      12:30 - 12:45  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      12:45 - 13:00  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      13:00 - 13:15  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      13:15 - 13:30  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      13:30 - 13:45  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      13:45 - 14:00  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      14:00 - 14:15  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      14:15 - 14:30  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      14:30 - 14:45  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      14:45 - 15:00  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      15:00 - 15:15  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      15:15 - 15:30  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      15:30 - 15:45  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                      15:45 - 16:00  0            0       0      0        0         0       0                          0    0       0          0       0       0                   0      0        0         0
                     PM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A             B       C      D        E         F      G                           H    I       J          K       L       M                   N      O        P       TOTAL
                      16:00 - 16:15 25            6       4      0        0         0      10                          0    1       0          15      0       5                   0      0        0         66
                      16:15 - 16:30 21            1       0      0        0         2      10                          0    4       0          11      0       0                   0      0        0         49
                      16:30 - 16:45 17            3       0      0        0         2      14                          0    4       0           9      0       0                   0      0        0         49
                      16:45 - 17:00 28            1       0      0        0         2      23                          0    3       0          12      0       0                   0      0        0         69
                      17:00 - 17:15 29            0       0      0        0         4      16                          0    3       0          16      0       0                   0      0        0         68
                      17:15 - 17:30 14            1       0      0        0         0      6                           0    0       0          14      0       0                   0      0        0         35
                      17:30 - 17:45  8            4       0      0        0         3      9                           0    1       0           8      0       0                   0      0        0         33
                      17:45 - 18:00 13            2       0      0        0         0      3                           0    2       0           3      0       0                   0      0        0         23
            Draper - Tri-View II
            Traffic Impact Study




APPENDIX B
     LOS Results
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand          Volume Served             Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume       Avg           %             Avg          LOS
             L           99         84           85           101.3          F
             T          153        147           96           100.9          F
   NB
            R           559        528           94           107.4          F
          Subtotal      811        759           94           105.5          F
             L          427        424           99            60.4          E
             T          167        167          100            52.8          D
   SB
            R           179        179          100            11.3          B
          Subtotal      773        770          100            47.3          D
             L          162        160           99            42.3          D
             T         1,374      1,371         100            40.6          D
   EB
            R            49         49           99            24.1          C
          Subtotal     1,585      1,580         100            40.3          D
             L          370        366           99            78.3          E
             T         1,326      1,327         100            24.4          C
   WB
            R           267        264           99            20.8          C
          Subtotal     1,963      1,957         100            34.0          C
  Total                5,132      5,066          99            49.0          D


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          95           95          100           2.4           A
            T          12           15          122           1.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal       107          110         103    2.2          A
                   T            17          17          99     0.4          A
                  R             83          83          100    0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal       100          100         100    0.2          A
                   L           44           43          97    5.1           A
                   R            48          48          99     2.0          A
   EB
                Subtotal        92          91          99     3.5          A




  Total                        300          301         100    1.9          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South
Type:              All-way Stop Controlled
                     Demand            Volume Served          Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %          Avg          LOS
             L           53           57          108          5.2          A
             T          379          378          100         12.0          B
   NB
            R            15           15          98           3.9          A
          Subtotal      447          450          101         10.9          B
             L          193          182          94           9.9          A
             T          374          380          102          8.1          A
   SB
            R            20           18          91           7.1          A
          Subtotal      587          580          99           8.6          A
             L           15           14          92           7.1          A
             T           10           11          107          9.9          A
   EB
            R            57           57          100          3.9          A
          Subtotal       82           82          100          5.3          A
             L           10            9          88           9.7          A
             T           31           32          104         10.0          A
   WB
            R           215          213          99           7.4          A
          Subtotal      256          254          99           7.8          A
  Total                1,372        1,366         100          9.0          A


Intersection:     West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %            Avg          LOS
                   L           12           12          98    6.4           A
   NB
                Subtotal        12          12          100    6.4          A
                  R             61          59          97     3.6          A
    SB
                Subtotal        61          59          97     3.6          A
                   L           101          95          94     3.4          A
                   T            89          87          98     1.3          A
    EB
                  R             33          32          97     1.0          A
                Subtotal       223          214         96     2.2          A
                   T           184          185         101    0.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       184          185         101    0.3          A
  Total                        480          470         98     1.7          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     East Business Access & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served             Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg          %             Avg          LOS
                   L           12           12          98    4.8           A
                   R            5            5          100    2.9          A
   NB
                Subtotal        17          17          100    4.2          A
                   T            87          85          98     0.2          A
                  R             2            2          100    0.1          A
    EB
                Subtotal        89          87          98     0.2          A
                   L            7            6          83     1.9          A
                   T           172          173         101    0.2          A
   WB
                Subtotal       179          179         100    0.3          A




  Total                        285          283         99     0.5          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 2
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          8            10          121           1.8           A
            T          49           48          97            0.6           A
   NB
                Subtotal        57          58          102    0.8          A
                   T            94          94          101    0.9          A
    SB
                Subtotal        94          94          100    0.9          A
                  R             5            4          80    3.2           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            4          80     3.2          A




  Total                        156          156         100    0.9          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          8             8          97            1.6           A
            T          40           39          98            0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        48          47          98     0.4          A
                   T            88          90          102    0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal        88          90          102    0.2          A
                  R             5            5          100   2.6           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            5          100    2.6          A




  Total                        142          142         100    0.3          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 4
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          9            10          108           1.9           A
            T          32           30          94            0.3           A
   NB
                Subtotal        41          40          98     0.7          A
                   T            84          86          103    0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        84          86          102    0.1          A
                  R             5            5          100   2.4           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            5          100    2.4          A




  Total                        130          131         101    0.3          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 5
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          12           13          106           1.7           A
            T          19           16          84            0.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal        31          29          94     0.8          A
                   T            73          76          104    0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        73          76          104    0.1          A
                  R            10            9          88    2.9           A
   EB
                Subtotal        10           9          90     2.9          A




  Total                        114          114         100    0.5          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Existing (2021) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                      Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand          Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume       Avg           %                Avg          LOS
             L           99         94           95               81.3          F
             T          153        155          101               80.5          F
   NB
            R           559        551           99               22.4          C
          Subtotal      811        800           99               40.6          D
             L          427        429          100               69.9          E
             T          167        168          101               62.7          E
   SB
            R           179        180          100               13.5          B
          Subtotal      773        777          101               55.3          E
             L          162        158           98               44.4          D
             T         1,374      1,371         100               46.4          D
   EB
            R            49         52          106               29.9          C
          Subtotal     1,585      1,581         100               45.7          D
             L          370        367           99               43.6          D
             T         1,326      1,341         101               19.1          B
   WB
            R           267        270          101               16.8          B
          Subtotal     1,963      1,978         101               23.3          C
  Total                5,132      5,136         100               37.9          D


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            L          95           90           95               2.8           A
            T          12           13          106               1.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal       107          103           96       2.6          A
                   T            17          16            93       0.4          A
                  R             83          81            97       0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal       100           97           97       0.1          A
                   L           44           46           104      4.9           A
                   R            48           49           102      2.0          A
   EB
                Subtotal        92           95           103      3.4          A




  Total                        300          295           98       2.1          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Existing (2021) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                      Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South
Type:              All-way Stop Controlled
                     Demand            Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
             L           53           48          91               5.1          A
             T          379          367          97              10.9          B
   NB
            R            15           16          105              3.7          A
          Subtotal      447          431          96              10.0          A
             L          193          187          97               9.5          A
             T          374          382          102              8.0          A
   SB
            R            20           20          101              6.5          A
          Subtotal      587          589          100              8.4          A
             L           15           14          92               7.4          A
             T           10            9          88              10.3          B
   EB
            R            57           61          107              4.1          A
          Subtotal       82           84          102              5.3          A
             L           10            8          78               9.1          A
             T           31           28          91               9.8          A
   WB
            R           215          212          98               7.0          A
          Subtotal      256          248          97               7.4          A
  Total                1,372        1,352         99               8.6          A


Intersection:     West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %            Avg          LOS
                   L           12           12            98      6.5           A
   NB
                Subtotal        12           12           100      6.5          A
                  R             61           63           104      3.5          A
    SB
                Subtotal        61          63            103      3.5          A
                   L           101          94            93       3.2          A
                   T            89          90            101      1.3          A
    EB
                  R             33          32            97       1.0          A
                Subtotal       223          216           97       2.1          A
                   T           184          175           95       0.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       184          175           95       0.3          A
  Total                        480          466           97       1.7          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Existing (2021) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                      Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     East Business Access & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served                 Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg          %                 Avg          LOS
                   L           12           11            90      5.4           A
                   R            5            6            120      2.5          A
   NB
                Subtotal        17           17           100      4.4          A
                   T            87           88           101      0.2          A
                  R             2             2           100      0.1          A
    EB
                Subtotal        89          90            101      0.2          A
                   L            7            8            110      1.7          A
                   T           172          164           95       0.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       179          172           96       0.4          A




  Total                        285          279           98       0.5          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 2
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            L          8             7          85                1.5           A
            T          49           52          106               0.6           A
   NB
                Subtotal        57           59           104      0.7          A
                   T            94           92           98       0.9          A
    SB
                Subtotal        94           92           98       0.9          A
                  R             5            4            80      3.5           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            4            80       3.5          A




  Total                        156          155           99       0.9          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Existing (2021) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                      Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            L          8             8          97                1.6           A
            T          40           43          108               0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        48           51           106      0.4          A
                   T            88           88           99       0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        88           88           100      0.1          A
                  R             5            4            80      3.0           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            4            80       3.0          A




  Total                        142          143           101      0.3          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 4
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            L          9             9          97                1.7           A
            T          32           35          109               0.3           A
   NB
                Subtotal        41           44           107      0.6          A
                   T            84           83           99       0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        84           83           99       0.1          A
                  R             5            6           120      2.3           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            6            120      2.3          A




  Total                        130          133           103      0.3          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Existing (2021) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                      Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 5
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            L          12           12          98                1.8           A
            T          19           22          116               0.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal        31           34           110      0.7          A
                   T            73           73           100      0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        73           73           100      0.1          A
                  R            10           10            98      2.8           A
   EB
                Subtotal        10           10           100      2.8          A




  Total                        114          117           102      0.5          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand          Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume       Avg           %               Avg          LOS
             L          138        137           99             111.9          F
             T          192        192          100              83.7          F
   NB
            R           593        599          101              28.8          C
          Subtotal      923        928          101              52.4          D
             L          427        432          101              77.3          E
             T          195        199          102              92.1          F
   SB
            R           179        182          102              36.0          D
          Subtotal      801        813          101              71.7          E
             L          162        162          100              50.1          D
             T         1,374      1,362          99              60.7          E
   EB
            R            98         92           94              43.9          D
          Subtotal     1,634      1,616          99              58.7          E
             L          457        463          101              53.0          D
             T         1,326      1,339         101              19.7          B
   WB
            R           267        282          106              17.8          B
          Subtotal     2,050      2,084         102              26.8          C
  Total                5,408      5,441         101              47.5          D


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          95           97          102             2.0           A
            T          17           16           93             1.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal       112           113          101    1.9          A
                   T            14           14           98     0.2          A
                  R             11           11           98     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        25            25          100    0.2          A
                   L            22           24           110   4.6           A
                   R            48            49          102    1.9          A
   EB
                Subtotal        70            73          104    2.8          A




  Total                        208           211          102    2.0          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South
Type:              All-way Stop Controlled
                     Demand            Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
             L           53           54          102           4.6           A
             T          384          380          99            8.5           A
   NB
            R            19           20          107           3.5           A
          Subtotal      456          454          100           7.8           A
             L          117          120          102           7.1           A
             T          318          320          101           7.7           A
   SB
            R            20           18          91            4.9           A
          Subtotal      455          458          101           7.4           A
             L           15           14          92            6.4           A
             T           10            9          88            8.7           A
   EB
            R            57           57          100           3.5           A
          Subtotal       82           80          98            4.6           A
             L           11            9          80            7.3           A
             T           31           30          97            8.2           A
   WB
            R           113          116          102           5.0           A
          Subtotal      155          155          100           5.8           A
  Total                1,148        1,147         100           7.2           A


Intersection:     West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %            Avg          LOS
                   L            12           11           90    5.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        12            11          92     5.2          A
                  R             32            31          97     3.0          A
    SB
                Subtotal        32           31           97     3.0          A
                   L            51           49           96     2.9          A
                   T            67           70           104    1.2          A
    EB
                  R             33           36           109    0.9          A
                Subtotal       151           155          103    1.7          A
                   T           111           113          102    0.2          A
   WB
                Subtotal       111           113          102    0.2          A
  Total                        307           310          101    1.4          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     East Business Access & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg          %               Avg          LOS
                   L            12           11           90    5.1           A
                   R             5            6           120    2.4          A
   NB
                Subtotal        17            17          100    4.1          A
                   T            65            67          103    0.2          A
                  R             2              2          100    0.0          A
    EB
                Subtotal        67           69           103    0.2          A
                   L            7             7           97     1.6          A
                   T            99           102          103    0.2          A
   WB
                Subtotal       106           109          103    0.3          A




  Total                        190           195          102    0.6          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 2
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          8             8          97              1.0           A
            T          32           34          107             0.5           A
   NB
                Subtotal        40            42          105    0.6          A
                   T            22            22          102    0.4          A
    SB
                Subtotal        22            22          100    0.4          A
                  R             3             4           133   2.6           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            4           133    2.6          A




  Total                         64            68          105    0.7          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          5             6          120             1.4           A
            T          26           27          104             0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        31            33          106    0.4          A
                   T            17            18          104    0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal        17            18          106    0.2          A
                  R             4             3           75    2.8           A
   EB
                Subtotal         4            3           75     2.8          A




  Total                         52            54          103    0.5          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 4
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          7             6          83              1.7           A
            T          19           20          107             0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        26            26          100    0.5          A
                   T            15            16          105    0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal        15            16          107    0.2          A
                  R             3             3           100   2.6           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            3           100    2.6          A




  Total                         44            45          102    0.6          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 5
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          7             8          110             1.4           A
            T          13           14          108             0.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal        20            22          110    0.6          A
                   T            10            11          107    0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        10            11          110    0.1          A
                  R             4             4           100   2.3           A
   EB
                Subtotal         4            4           100    2.3          A




  Total                         34            37          107    0.6          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 6
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          4             4          100             1.4           A
            T          8            10          118             0.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal        12            14          117    0.5          A
                   T            7              8          110    0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal         7            8           114    0.1          A
                  R             3             3           100   2.2           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            3           100    2.2          A




  Total                         23            25          110    0.6          A
                                       SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Existing (2021) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Access 7
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand                    Volume Served     Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume                   Avg          %     Avg          LOS
            L          4                      5          125    1.5           A
            T          4                      5          118    0.0           A
   NB
                Subtotal         8            10          125    0.8          A
                   T             4             4          100    0.0          A
    SB
                Subtotal         4            4           100    0.0          A
                  R             3             3           100   2.8           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            3           100    2.8          A




  Total                         15            17          111    0.9          A


Intersection:     Lone Peak Parkway & West Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %               Avg          LOS
            T         608         608          100              1.2           A
            R          5           4           80               0.7           A
   NB
                Subtotal       613           612          100    1.2          A
                   L           250           248          99    13.7          B
                   T           512           519          101    2.5          A
    SB
                Subtotal       762           767          101    6.1          A
                   L            5             4           80    50.1          F
                   R           200           208          104   12.8          B
   SW
                Subtotal       205           212          103   13.5          B




  Total                        1,580        1,591         101    5.2          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                 Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume       Avg           %            Avg          LOS
             L          116        117          101          106.9          F
             T          187        183           98          127.7          F
   NB
            R           684        658           96           63.9          E
          Subtotal      987        958           97           81.3          F
             L          490        496          101           93.4          F
             T          198        205          103           74.5          E
   SB
            R           200        203          101           21.2          C
          Subtotal      888        904          102           72.9          E
             L          180        177           98           58.6          E
             T         1,440      1,437         100           76.5          E
   EB
            R            54         50           93           58.5          E
          Subtotal     1,674      1,664          99           74.1          E
             L          442        437           99           44.6          D
             T         1,385      1,364          98           22.6          C
   WB
            R           305        306          100           20.4          C
          Subtotal     2,132      2,107          99           26.8          C
  Total                5,682      5,633          99           57.7          E


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            L          95           99          104          2.6           A
            T          12           14          114          1.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal       107         113        106     2.4          A
                   T            17         19         110     0.4          A
                  R             85         88         104     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal       102         107        105     0.2          A
                   L           45           39        87     5.0           A
                   R           50           53        106     2.1          A
   EB
                Subtotal       95           92        97      3.3          A




  Total                        304         312        103     1.9          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                 Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South
Type:              All-way Stop Controlled
                     Demand            Volume Served         Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %         Avg          LOS
             L           55           50          90         82.1          F
             T          550          522          95         24.8          C
   NB
            R            17           18          104        16.0          C
          Subtotal      622          590          95         29.4          D
             L          194          189          97         10.7          B
             T          476          474          100         6.4          A
   SB
            R            25           26          105         5.3          A
          Subtotal      695          689          99          7.5          A
             L           20           21          104         8.3          A
             T           15           15          98          9.6          A
   EB
            R            60           61          101         3.8          A
          Subtotal       95           97          102         5.7          A
             L           14           14          98          7.9          A
             T           31           28          91         11.3          B
   WB
            R           217          226          104         6.9          A
          Subtotal      262          268          102         7.4          A
  Total                1,674        1,644         98         15.4          C


Intersection:     West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %            Avg          LOS
                   L           15           16        105    6.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal       15           16        107     6.2          A
                  R            61           60        98      3.8          A
    SB
                Subtotal        61         60         98      3.8          A
                   L           101         98         97      3.5          A
                   T            94         89         95      1.4          A
    EB
                  R             35         38         109     1.1          A
                Subtotal       230         225        98      2.3          A
                   T           186         193        104     0.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       186         193        104     0.3          A
  Total                        492         494        100     1.8          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                 Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     East Business Access & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg          %            Avg          LOS
                   L           15           15        98     4.6           A
                   R           10           12        117     2.6          A
   NB
                Subtotal       25           27        108     3.7          A
                   T           85           80        94      0.3          A
                  R            5             6        120     0.0          A
    EB
                Subtotal        90         86         96      0.3          A
                   L            10         10         98      1.5          A
                   T           170         178        104     0.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       180         188        104     0.4          A




  Total                        296         301        102     0.6          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 2
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            L          8             6          73           1.5           A
            T          50           48          96           0.6           A
   NB
                Subtotal       58           54        93      0.7          A
                   T           95           98        103     0.9          A
    SB
                Subtotal       95           98        103     0.9          A
                  R             5           6         120    3.0           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            6        120     3.0          A




  Total                        158         158        100     0.9          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                 Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            L          8             8          97           1.7           A
            T          41           38          93           0.3           A
   NB
                Subtotal       49           46        94      0.5          A
                   T           91           93        102     0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal       91           93        102     0.2          A
                  R             5           6         120    2.7           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            6        120     2.7          A




  Total                        145         145        100     0.4          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 4
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            L          9             8          86           1.9           A
            T          33           31          95           0.3           A
   NB
                Subtotal       42           39        93      0.6          A
                   T           85           87        102     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal       85           87        102     0.1          A
                  R             5           6         120    2.8           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            6        120     2.8          A




  Total                        132         132        100     0.4          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                 Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 5
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            L          12           10          82           2.0           A
            T          20           20          98           0.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal       32           30        94      0.7          A
                   T           75           77        103     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal       75           77        103     0.1          A
                  R            10           10        98     2.7           A
   EB
                Subtotal       10           10        100     2.7          A




  Total                        118         117        99      0.5          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Future (2026) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand          Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume       Avg           %              Avg          LOS
             L          116        116          100             68.6          E
             T          187        194          104             79.2          E
   NB
            R           684        698          102             21.5          C
          Subtotal      987       1,008         102             38.0          D
             L          490        485           99             62.6          E
             T          198        190           96             53.5          D
   SB
            R           200        198           99             17.2          B
          Subtotal      888        873           98             50.3          D
             L          180        176           98             47.0          D
             T         1,440      1,444         100             39.2          D
   EB
            R            54         57          106             21.5          C
          Subtotal     1,674      1,677         100             39.4          D
             L          442        450          102             60.1          E
             T         1,385      1,372          99             22.4          C
   WB
            R           305        301           99              7.4          A
          Subtotal     2,132      2,123         100             28.3          C
  Total                5,682      5,681         100             36.7          D


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          95           94           99             2.7           A
            T          12           13          106             1.5           A
   NB
                Subtotal       107          107          100     2.6          A
                   T            17          17           99      0.3          A
                  R             85          83           98      0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal       102          100           98     0.1          A
                   L           45           45           100    5.2           A
                   R            50           49           98     2.1          A
   EB
                Subtotal        95           94           99     3.6          A




  Total                        304          301           99     2.1          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Future (2026) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South
Type:              All-way Stop Controlled
                     Demand            Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
             L           55           53          96             4.9          A
             T          550          568          103            7.8          A
   NB
            R            17           18          104            3.8          A
          Subtotal      622          639          103            7.4          A
             L          194          199          103           14.6          B
             T          476          476          100            7.6          A
   SB
            R            25           24          97             7.0          A
          Subtotal      695          699          101            9.6          A
             L           20           20          99             8.4          A
             T           15           15          98             9.8          A
   EB
            R            60           61          101            3.8          A
          Subtotal       95           96          101            5.7          A
             L           14           12          84             8.3          A
             T           31           32          104           12.0          B
   WB
            R           217          217          100            7.4          A
          Subtotal      262          261          100            8.0          A
  Total                1,674        1,695         101            8.3          A


Intersection:     West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %            Avg          LOS
                   L           15           16           105    6.6           A
   NB
                Subtotal        15           16          107     6.6          A
                  R             61           62          101     3.6          A
    SB
                Subtotal        61          62           102     3.6          A
                   L           101          107          106     3.4          A
                   T            94          94           100     1.4          A
    EB
                  R             35          35           101     1.1          A
                Subtotal       230          236          103     2.3          A
                   T           186          183          99      0.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       186          183          98      0.3          A
  Total                        492          497          101     1.9          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Future (2026) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     East Business Access & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg          %               Avg          LOS
                   L           15           13            85    4.9           A
                   R            10           11          107     2.7          A
   NB
                Subtotal        25           24          96      3.9          A
                   T            85           84          99      0.2          A
                  R             5             7          140     0.0          A
    EB
                Subtotal        90          91           101     0.2          A
                   L            10           8           78      1.9          A
                   T           170          170          100     0.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       180          178           99     0.4          A




  Total                        296          293           99     0.6          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 2
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          8             9          109             1.6           A
            T          50           50          100             0.6           A
   NB
                Subtotal        58           59          102     0.8          A
                   T            95           94          99      0.9          A
    SB
                Subtotal        95           94           99     0.9          A
                  R             5            5           100    3.0           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            5           100     3.0          A




  Total                        158          158          100     0.9          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Future (2026) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          8             8          97              1.6           A
            T          41           41          100             0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        49           49          100     0.4          A
                   T            91           90          99      0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal        91           90           99     0.2          A
                  R             5            5           100    2.7           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            5           100     2.7          A




  Total                        145          144           99     0.3          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 4
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          9             8          86              1.8           A
            T          33           34          104             0.3           A
   NB
                Subtotal        42           42          100     0.6          A
                   T            85           84          99      0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        85           84           99     0.1          A
                  R             5            5           100    2.5           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            5           100     2.5          A




  Total                        132          131           99     0.3          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Future (2026) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 5
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          12           12          98              1.8           A
            T          20           23          112             0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        32           35          109     0.7          A
                   T            75           73          98      0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        75           73           97     0.1          A
                  R            10           11           107    2.8           A
   EB
                Subtotal        10           11          110     2.8          A




  Total                        118          119          101     0.5          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume       Avg           %            Avg          LOS
             L          155        152           98           72.5          E
             T          230        224           98           66.6          E
   NB
            R           718        724          101           21.6          C
          Subtotal     1,103      1,100         100           37.8          D
             L          490        494          101           64.8          E
             T          234        232           99           60.9          E
   SB
            R           200        205          103           23.6          C
          Subtotal      924        931          101           54.8          D
             L          180        183          102           49.5          D
             T         1,440      1,461         101           44.8          D
   EB
            R           101         97           96           27.2          C
          Subtotal     1,721      1,741         101           44.3          D
             L          525        530          101           63.5          E
             T         1,385      1,366          99           24.1          C
   WB
            R           305        308          101            8.1          A
          Subtotal     2,215      2,204         100           31.3          C
  Total                5,962      5,976         100           40.0          D


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          95           90           95           1.9           A
            T          17           17           99           1.0           A
   NB
                Subtotal       112           107        96     1.8          A
                   T            14           11         77     0.2          A
                  R             11           12         107    0.0          A
    SB
                Subtotal        25            23        92     0.1          A
                   L            22           18         83    4.6           A
                   R            50            48        96     2.0          A
   EB
                Subtotal        72            66        92     2.7          A




  Total                        210           196        94     1.9          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South
Type:              All-way Stop Controlled
                     Demand            Volume Served          Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %          Avg          LOS
             L           55           54          99          6.1           A
             T          555          556          100         6.4           A
   NB
            R            18           20          113         3.2           A
          Subtotal      628          630          100         6.3           A
             L          120          110          91          8.2           A
             T          420          421          100         7.9           A
   SB
            R            25           25          101         5.8           A
          Subtotal      565          556          98          7.9           A
             L           20           20          101         6.8           A
             T           15           15          98          9.7           A
   EB
            R            60           61          102         3.7           A
          Subtotal       95           96          101         5.3           A
             L           13           12          91          7.1           A
             T           30           31          102         9.1           A
   WB
            R           115          111          96          5.1           A
          Subtotal      158          154          97          6.1           A
  Total                1,446        1,436         99          6.8           A


Intersection:     West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %            Avg          LOS
                   L            15           16         105   5.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        15            16        107    5.2          A
                  R             32            32        100    3.0          A
    SB
                Subtotal        32           32         100    3.0          A
                   L            51           50         98     3.0          A
                   T            69           63         92     1.3          A
    EB
                  R             35           33         94     1.1          A
                Subtotal       155           146        94     1.8          A
                   T           111           105        94     0.2          A
   WB
                Subtotal       111           105        95     0.2          A
  Total                        314           299        95     1.6          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     East Business Access & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served             Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg          %             Avg          LOS
                   L            15           14         92    4.6           A
                   R            10            12        117    2.6          A
   NB
                Subtotal        25            26        104    3.7          A
                   T            62            55        89     0.2          A
                  R             5              6        120    0.0          A
    EB
                Subtotal        67            61        91     0.2          A
                   L            10            10        98     1.7          A
                   T            96            91        95     0.2          A
   WB
                Subtotal       106           101        95     0.3          A




  Total                        198           188        95     0.7          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 2
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          8             8          97            1.2           A
            T          32           30          94            0.4           A
   NB
                Subtotal        40            38        95     0.6          A
                   T            22            20        93     0.5          A
    SB
                Subtotal        22            20        91     0.5          A
                  R             3             2         67    2.3           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            2         67     2.3          A




  Total                         64            60        93     0.6          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          5             4          80            1.5           A
            T          26           25          96            0.3           A
   NB
                Subtotal        31            29        94     0.5          A
                   T            17            16        93     0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal        17            16        94     0.2          A
                  R             4             4         100   2.4           A
   EB
                Subtotal         4            4         100    2.4          A




  Total                         52            49        94     0.5          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 4
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          7             6          83            1.5           A
            T          19           19          101           0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        26            25        96     0.5          A
                   T            15            15        98     0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal        15            15        100    0.2          A
                  R             3             3         100   2.3           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            3         100    2.3          A




  Total                         44            43        97     0.5          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 5
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          7             7          97            1.5           A
            T          13           13          100           0.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal        20            20        100    0.6          A
                   T            10             9        88     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        10            9         90     0.1          A
                  R             4             4         100   2.8           A
   EB
                Subtotal         4            4         100    2.8          A




  Total                         34            33        96     0.7          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 6
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          4            4           100           1.3           A
            T          8            8           94            0.0           A
   NB
                Subtotal        12            12        100    0.4          A
                   T            7              6        83     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal         7            6         86     0.1          A
                  R             3             3         100   2.3           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            3         100    2.3          A




  Total                         23            21        92     0.6          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2026) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 7
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          4            4           100           1.3           A
            T          4            4           94            0.0           A
   NB
                Subtotal         8            8         100    0.7          A
                   T             4            3         75     0.0          A
    SB
                Subtotal         4            3         75     0.0          A
                  R             3             3         100   2.4           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            3         100    2.4          A




  Total                         15            14        92     0.9          A


Intersection:     Lone Peak Parkway & West Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served             Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %             Avg          LOS
            T         785         778          99             0.9           A
            R          5           5           100            0.7           A
   NB
                Subtotal       790           783        99     0.9          A
                   L           250           256        102   21.7          C
                   T           625           618        99     2.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal       875           874        100    7.9          A
                   L            5             5         100   71.1          F
                   R           200           206        103   12.2          B
   SW
                Subtotal       205           211        103   13.6          B




  Total                       1,870         1,868       100    5.6          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                 Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume       Avg           %            Avg          LOS
             L          166        155           94          110.9          F
             T          257        244           95          177.2          F
   NB
            R           949        950          100           64.3          E
          Subtotal     1,372      1,349          98           90.1          F
             L          540        530           98          149.1          F
             T          273        258           95          135.0          F
   SB
            R           245        232           95           96.1          F
          Subtotal     1,058      1,020          96          133.5          F
             L          220        208           95           98.3          F
             T         1,920      1,851          96          106.7          F
   EB
            R            59         60          101           99.2          F
          Subtotal     2,199      2,119          96          105.7          F
             L          602        604          100           83.6          F
             T         1,850      1,860         101           30.1          C
   WB
            R           340        344          101           11.6          B
          Subtotal     2,792      2,808         101           39.3          D
  Total                7,422      7,296          98           81.9          F


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            L          95           94           99          2.5           A
            T          12           13          106          1.5           A
   NB
                Subtotal       107         107        100     2.4          A
                   T            17         18         104     0.4          A
                  R             85         86         101     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal       102         104        102     0.2          A
                   L           45           44        98     5.6           A
                   T            0           0          0
   EB
                  R             70         73         104     2.5          A
                Subtotal       115         117        102     3.7          A




  Total                        325         328        101     2.1          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                 Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand          Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume       Avg           %           Avg          LOS
             L           75         74           99          13.6          B
             T          880        890          101          12.3          B
   NB
            R            17         21          122           4.2          A
          Subtotal      972        985          101          12.2          B
             L          194        194          100          18.8          B
             T          715        702           98           5.7          A
   SB
            R            25         29          117           5.2          A
          Subtotal      934        925           99           8.4          A
             L           75         76          102          38.5          D
             T           35         34           98          29.7          C
   EB
            R            65         66          101          10.9          B
          Subtotal      175        176          101          26.5          C
             L           14         15          105          33.1          C
             T           31         29           94          28.5          C
   WB
            R           217        214           99          16.4          B
          Subtotal      262        258           98          18.7          B
  Total                2,342      2,344         100          12.5          B


Intersection:     West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %            Avg          LOS
                   L           15           14        92     7.0           A
   NB
                Subtotal       15           14        93      7.0          A
                  R            61           60        98      3.6          A
    SB
                Subtotal        61         60         98      3.6          A
                   L           101         102        101     3.7          A
                   T           112         114        102     1.9          A
    EB
                  R             35         36         104     1.3          A
                Subtotal       248         252        102     2.5          A
                   T           186         185        100     0.4          A
   WB
                Subtotal       186         185        99      0.4          A
  Total                        510         511        100     2.0          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                 Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     East Business Access & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg          %            Avg          LOS
                   L           15           14        92     5.6           A
                   R           10           12        117     2.8          A
   NB
                Subtotal        25         26         104     4.3          A
                   T           105         106        101     0.5          A
                  R             5           6         120     0.1          A
    EB
                Subtotal       110         112        102     0.5          A
                   L            10          9         88      1.9          A
                   T           170         171        100     0.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       180         180        100     0.4          A




  Total                        316         318        100     0.7          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 2
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            L          8             8          97           1.3           A
            T          50           50          100          0.6           A
   NB
                Subtotal       58           58        100     0.7          A
                   T           95           95        100     0.9          A
    SB
                Subtotal       95           95        100     0.9          A
                  R             5           6         120    3.5           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            6        120     3.5          A




  Total                        158         159        100     0.9          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                 Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            L          8             6          73           1.7           A
            T          41           42          102          0.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal       49           48        98      0.3          A
                   T           91           92        101     0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal       91           92        101     0.2          A
                  R             5           4         80     2.5           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            4        80      2.5          A




  Total                        145         144        99      0.3          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 4
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            L          9             8          86           1.8           A
            T          33           35          107          0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal       42           43        102     0.5          A
                   T           85           87        102     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal       85           87        102     0.1          A
                  R             5           5         100    2.6           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            5        100     2.6          A




  Total                        132         135        102     0.3          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                 Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 5
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            L          12           13          106          1.9           A
            T          20           22          107          0.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal       32           35        109     0.8          A
                   T           75           76        102     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal       75           76        101     0.1          A
                  R            10           11        107    2.9           A
   EB
                Subtotal       10           11        110     2.9          A




  Total                        118         122        104     0.5          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Future (2050) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          95           96          101             2.5           A
            T          12           13          106             1.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal       107          109          102     2.3          A
                   T            17          17           99      0.4          A
                  R             85          82           97      0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal       102           99           97     0.2          A
                   L           45           44            98    5.3           A
                   T            0            0            0
   EB
                  R             70          73           104     2.3          A
                Subtotal       115          117          102     3.4          A




  Total                        325          325          100     2.1          A


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand          Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume       Avg           %              Avg          LOS
             L           75         75          100             13.6          B
             T          880        895          102              9.9          A
   NB
            R            17         17           99              2.4          A
          Subtotal      972        987          102             10.1          A
             L          194        194          100             13.5          B
             T          605        597           99              4.3          A
   SB
            R            25         25          101              2.5          A
          Subtotal      824        816           99              6.4          A
             L           75         73           98             31.7          C
             T           35         34           98             29.6          C
   EB
            R            65         70          107              9.3          A
          Subtotal      175        177          101             22.4          C
             L           14         14           98             31.3          C
             T           31         29           94             30.4          C
   WB
            R           217        217          100             12.6          B
          Subtotal      262        260           99             15.6          B
  Total                2,232      2,240         100             10.4          B
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Future (2050) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %            Avg          LOS
                   L           15           17           111    5.9           A
   NB
                Subtotal        15           17          113     5.9          A
                  R             61           60          98      3.7          A
    SB
                Subtotal        61          60           98      3.7          A
                   L           101          100          99      3.6          A
                   T           112          112          100     1.6          A
    EB
                  R             35          35           101     1.2          A
                Subtotal       248          247          100     2.4          A
                   T           186          184          99      0.4          A
   WB
                Subtotal       186          184          99      0.4          A
  Total                        510          508          100     1.9          A


Intersection:     East Business Access & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg          %               Avg          LOS
                   L           15           16           105    5.3           A
                   R            10           13          127     2.8          A
   NB
                Subtotal        25          29           116     4.2          A
                   T           105          105          100     0.4          A
                  R             5            5           100     0.1          A
    EB
                Subtotal       110          110          100     0.4          A
                   L            10           9           88      1.9          A
                   T           170          169          99      0.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       180          178           99     0.4          A




  Total                        316          317          100     0.7          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Future (2050) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 2
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          8             8          97              1.5           A
            T          50           50          100             0.6           A
   NB
                Subtotal        58           58          100     0.7          A
                   T            95           94          99      0.9          A
    SB
                Subtotal        95           94           99     0.9          A
                  R             5            4            80    3.4           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            4            80     3.4          A




  Total                        158          156           99     0.9          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          8             8          97              1.6           A
            T          41           41          100             0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        49           49          100     0.4          A
                   T            91           92          101     0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal        91           92          101     0.2          A
                  R             5            4            80    2.3           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            4            80     2.3          A




  Total                        145          145          100     0.3          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Mitigated Future (2050) Background
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                    Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 4
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          9             9          97              1.6           A
            T          33           34          104             0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        42           43          102     0.5          A
                   T            85           85          100     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        85           85          100     0.1          A
                  R             5            6           120    2.8           A
   EB
                Subtotal        5            6           120     2.8          A




  Total                        132          134          101     0.3          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 5
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
            L          12           12          98              1.7           A
            T          20           22          107             0.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal        32           34          106     0.7          A
                   T            75           75          100     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        75           75          100     0.1          A
                  R            10           10            98    2.7           A
   EB
                Subtotal        10           10          100     2.7          A




  Total                        118          119          101     0.5          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          95          100          106           2.0           A
            T          17           17           99           1.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal       112           117        104    1.9          A
                   T            14           15         105    0.3          A
                  R             11           12         107    0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        25            27        108    0.2          A
                   L            22           21         97    5.1           A
                   T            1              1        133    0.8          A
   EB
                  R             70            68        97     2.2          A
                Subtotal        93            90        97     2.9          A




  Total                        230           234        102    2.0          A


Intersection:      Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume       Avg           %            Avg          LOS
             L           75         74           98           13.2          B
             T          885        887          100            8.9          A
   NB
            R            18         18          101            2.6          A
          Subtotal      978        979          100            9.1          A
             L          120        121          101           12.3          B
             T          660        670          101            4.2          A
   SB
            R            25         23           93            2.6          A
          Subtotal      805        814          101            5.4          A
             L           75         72           96           21.8          C
             T           35         34           97           18.8          B
   EB
            R            65         65          100            6.3          A
          Subtotal      175        171           98           15.3          B
             L           13         15          113           21.4          C
             T           30         29           96           20.7          C
   WB
            R           115        121          105            9.4          A
          Subtotal      158        165          104           12.5          B
  Total                2,117      2,129         101            8.4          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %            Avg          LOS
                   L            15           14         92    5.8           A
   NB
                Subtotal        15            14        93     5.8          A
                  R             32            34        106    3.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        32           34         106    3.1          A
                   L            51           49         96     3.0          A
                   T            88           87         98     1.7          A
    EB
                  R             35           38         109    1.2          A
                Subtotal       174           174        100    2.0          A
                   T           111           116        104    0.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       111           116        105    0.3          A
  Total                        333           338        101    1.7          A


Intersection:     East Business Access & 12650 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served             Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg          %             Avg          LOS
                   L            15           15         98    5.1           A
                   R            10            10        98     2.5          A
   NB
                Subtotal        25            25        100    4.1          A
                   T            82            81        98     0.4          A
                  R             5              5        100    0.1          A
    EB
                Subtotal        87           86         99     0.4          A
                   L            10           10         98     1.7          A
                   T            96           101        105    0.2          A
   WB
                Subtotal       106           111        105    0.3          A




  Total                        219           222        101    0.7          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 2
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          8             8          97            1.1           A
            T          32           31          98            0.5           A
   NB
                Subtotal        40            39        98     0.6          A
                   T            22            23        107    0.4          A
    SB
                Subtotal        22            23        105    0.4          A
                  R             3             3         100   2.5           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            3         100    2.5          A




  Total                         64            65        101    0.6          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          5             5          100           1.4           A
            T          26           25          96            0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        31            30        97     0.4          A
                   T            17            19        110    0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal        17            19        112    0.2          A
                  R             4             3         75    2.4           A
   EB
                Subtotal         4            3         75     2.4          A




  Total                         52            52        100    0.5          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 4
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          7             7          97            1.6           A
            T          19           18          96            0.3           A
   NB
                Subtotal        26            25        96     0.7          A
                   T            15            17        111    0.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal        15            17        113    0.2          A
                  R             3             4         133   2.3           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            4         133    2.3          A




  Total                         44            46        104    0.6          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 5
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          7             7          97            1.6           A
            T          13           13          100           0.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal        20            20        100    0.7          A
                   T            10            12        117    0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal        10            12        120    0.1          A
                  R             4             4         100   2.6           A
   EB
                Subtotal         4            4         100    2.6          A




  Total                         34            36        104    0.7          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 6
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          4             3          75            1.4           A
            T          8            10          118           0.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal        12            13        108    0.4          A
                   T            7              7        97     0.1          A
    SB
                Subtotal         7            7         100    0.1          A
                  R             3             4         133   2.4           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            4         133    2.4          A




  Total                         23            24        105    0.7          A


Intersection:     Pony Express Drive & Access 7
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          4            5           125           1.3           A
            T          4            5           118           0.0           A
   NB
                Subtotal         8            10        125    0.7          A
                   T             4             4        100    0.0          A
    SB
                Subtotal         4            4         100    0.0          A
                  R             3             3         100   2.4           A
   EB
                Subtotal         3            3         100    2.4          A




  Total                         15            17        111    0.8          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis Period:           Future (2050) Plus Project
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                  Project #: UT21-1826


Intersection:     Lone Peak Parkway & West Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served             Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg           %             Avg          LOS
            T        1,088       1,093         100            1.1           A
            R          5           4           80             0.9           A
   NB
                Subtotal      1,093         1,097       100    1.1          A
                   L           250           253        101   15.6          C
                   T           800           810        101    0.8          A
    SB
                Subtotal      1,050         1,063       101    4.3          A
                   L            5             5         100   91.2          F
                   R           200           199        100   10.7          B
   SW
                Subtotal       205           204        100   12.7          B




  Total                       2,348         2,364       101    3.6          A
          Draper - Tri-View II
          Traffic Impact Study




APPENDIX C
      Site Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                                                2                                                                                                    3                                                                                                               4                                                                                                     5                                                                       6                                                                                               7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REV. DATE
                                                                                          This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OVERALL SITE PHASE 2 PARKING SCHEDULE                                                                            GROSS AREA (IBC)                                                               UNITS PER FLOOR                         OVERALL SITE UNIT BREAKDOWN                                                         OVERALL SITE UNIT BREAKDOWN                                  OVERALL SITE UNIT BREAKDOWN                           PHASE 1:
                                                                                                       representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Family and Type                                       COUNT              Level                             Name                 SF                                    LEVEL         UNIT COUNT                       NAME                      COUNT               AVERAGE AREA                           NAME           COUNT               AVERAGE AREA              NAME       COUNT               AVERAGE AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg                                        407
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMMERCIAL USE:                                                   UNIT COUNTS                           PARKING COUNTS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING   A                                                                      BUILDING   A                                          BUILDING   A                                                                         BUILDING   B                                                 BUILDING   C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING SPACE: 10' x 22' - Parallel                                     15                   BUILDING A                                                                        BUILDING A                                            BUILDING A                                                                           BUILDING B                                                   BUILDING C                                               FITNESS CENTER                7,121 SQ.FT.                        BUILDING                 434 UNITS    INTERIOR STALLS             492
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         : 422
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SURFACE PARKING:                                                        422                  LEVEL 1               BUILDING A - AMENITY DECK       4,085 SF                     LEVEL 1         37                                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM                      17      682 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           2       680 SF                     UNIT: 1 BEDROOM       12      680 SF                     CAFE/ LOBBY                   2,166 SQ.FT.                        WEEKLY RENTALS           14 UNITS     EXTERIOR STALLS             258
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 1               BUILDING A - INTERIOR AMENITY   1,927 SF                     LEVEL 2         39                                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA                  1       757 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM A1        1       704 SF                     UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC    4       701 SF                     CORPORATE NIGHTLY RENTALS    11,948 SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL RESIDENTIAL        434 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg                                        118                  LEVEL 1               R2-APARTMENTS                   41,353 SF                    LEVEL 3         39                                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM MOD                  2       633 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA       1       702 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM       1       939 SF                                                                                                                             TOTAL                         750 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL COMMERCIAL         14 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg ADA                                    2                    LEVEL 2               R2-APARTMENTS                   42,156 SF                    LEVEL 4         39                                   UNIT: 1 STUDIO C                     1       457 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC        2       701 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END   4       966 SF                                                                                                                             (750 STALLS/ 448 UNITS= 1.67 LOAD FACTOR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL                        21,135 SQ.FT. COMMERCIAL USE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING A: 120                                                         120                  LEVEL 3               R2-APARTMENTS                   42,156 SF                    LEVEL 5         36                                   UNIT: 2 BEDROOM                      4       939 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           8       939 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC    4       1,088 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 4               R2-APARTMENTS                   42,156 SF                    BUILDING A: 190 190                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END                  2       966 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END       2       966 SF                     UNIT: STUDIO A        1       441 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg                                        69                   LEVEL 5               BUILDING A - AMENITY DECK       2,176 SF                                                                          UNIT: 2 BEDROOM IC                   4       1,066 SF                                UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        2       1,099 SF                   LEVEL 1               26      4,815 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BUILDING   B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8-19-2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg ADA                                    2                    LEVEL 5               BUILDING A - INTERIOR AMENITY   828 SF                      BUILDING B                                            UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC                   4       1,097 SF                                UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       2       1,163 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING B: 71                                                          71                   LEVEL 5               R2-APARTMENTS                   39,151 SF                    LEVEL 1         20                                   UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END                  2       1,163 SF                                LEVEL 1                   20      6,953 SF                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM       12      680 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARKING               PARKING AREA                    49,603 SF                    LEVEL 2         22                                   LEVEL 1                              37      7,759 SF                                                                                             UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC    4       702 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKING SPACE: 9' x 18' - 90 deg                                        112                  BUILDING A: 10                                        265,591 SF                   LEVEL 3         22                                                                                                                        UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           6       689 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM       1       939 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING C: 112                                                         112                                                                                                     LEVEL 4         22                                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM                      18      682 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC        2       701 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END   4       966 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRAND TOTAL:                                                            725                  BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING B B                                                                       LEVEL 5         19                                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA                  1       757 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           8       939 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC    4       1,088 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCHEMATIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 1               BUILDING B - INTERIOR AMENITY   1,534 SF                     BUILDING B: 105 105                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM MOD                  2       633 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END       2       966 SF                     UNIT: STUDIO A        1       457 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 1               R2-APARTMENTS                   23,958 SF                                                                         UNIT: 1 STUDIO C                     1       457 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        2       1,099 SF                   LEVEL 2               26      4,832 SF                    PHASE 2:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GROSS AREA AMENITY                                        LEVEL 2               R2-APARTMENTS                   25,491 SF                   BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BUILDING C C                                          UNIT: 2 BEDROOM                      5       938 SF                                  UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       2       1,163 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 3               R2-APARTMENTS                   25,491 SF                    LEVEL 1                  26                          UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END                  2       966 SF                                  LEVEL 2                   22      5,555 SF                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM       12      680 SF                     COMMERCIAL USE:                                                   UNIT COUNTS                           PARKING COUNTS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Level                     Name                               SF   LEVEL 4               R2-APARTMENTS                   25,491 SF                    LEVEL 2                  26                          UNIT: 2 BEDROOM IC                   4       1,066 SF                                                                                             UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC    4       702 SF                     VALET DOG SPA                7,758 SQ.FT.                                                               BUILDING A                  120 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING A               190 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 5               BUILDING B - AMENITY DECK       2,268 SF                     LEVEL 3                  26                          UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC                   4       1,097 SF                                UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           6       689 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM       1       939 SF                     RETAIL BUILDING              19,217 SQ.FT.                        BUILDING B               105 UNITS    BUILDING B                  71 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING A                                                               LEVEL 5               BUILDING B - INTERIOR AMENITY   788 SF                       LEVEL 4                  26                          UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END                  2       1,163 SF                                UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC        2       701 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END   4       966 SF                     BUILDING C WEEKLY RENTALS    27,768 SQ.FT.                        BUILDING C               128          BUILDING C                  112 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 1             BUILDING A - AMENITY DECK            4,085 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (UNITS            102 UNITS)   SITE                        422
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 5               R2-APARTMENTS                   22,436 SF                    LEVEL 5                  24                          LEVEL 2                              39      7,759 SF                                UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           8       939 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC    4       1,088 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 1             BUILDING A - INTERIOR AMENITY        1,927 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL                        54,743 SQ.FT. COMMERCIAL USE                (WEEKLY RENTALS    26 UNITS)   TOTAL                       725 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARKING               PARKING AREA                    25,706 SF                    BUILDING C:                                                                                                                               UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END       2       966 SF                     UNIT: STUDIO A        1       457 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 5             BUILDING A - AMENITY DECK            2,176 SF                                                                                                                    128
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARKING               VALET DOG SPA AMENITY           7,758 SF                     128                                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM                      18      682 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        2       1,099 SF                   LEVEL 3               26      4,832 SF                                                                                     TOTAL RESIDENTIAL        397 UNITS    (725 STALLS/ 423 UNITS= 1.71 LOAD FACTOR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 5             BUILDING A - INTERIOR AMENITY        828 SF          BUILDING B: 10                                        160,921 SF                   TOTAL UNITS:                                         UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA                  1       757 SF                                  UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       1       1,163 SF                                                                                                                                              TOTAL COMMERCIAL          26 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  423
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING A: 4                                            9,016 SF                                                                                           423                                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM MOD                  2       633 SF                                  UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END ADA   1       1,163 SF                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM       12      680 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING C C                                                                                                                            UNIT: 1 STUDIO C                     1       457 SF                                  LEVEL 3                   22      6,718 SF                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC    4       702 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 1           AMENITY - PT DECK (IBC)             13,672 SF                                                                         UNIT: 2 BEDROOM                      5       938 SF                                                                                               UNIT: 2 BEDROOM       1       939 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 1             BUILDING B - INTERIOR AMENITY        1,534 SF        LEVEL 1           R2-WEEKLY RENTALS (IBC)             27,768 SF                                                                         UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END                  2       966 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           6       689 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END   4       966 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 5             BUILDING B - AMENITY DECK            2,268 SF        LEVEL 1           RETAIL - LEVEL 2 (IBC)              5,177 SF                                                                          UNIT: 2 BEDROOM IC                   4       1,066 SF                                UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC        2       701 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC    4       1,088 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 5             BUILDING B - INTERIOR AMENITY        788 SF          LEVEL 2           R2-APARTMENTS (IBC)                 27,768 SF                                                                         UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC                   3       1,100 SF                                UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           8       939 SF                     UNIT: STUDIO A        1       457 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING             VALET DOG SPA AMENITY                7,758 SF        LEVEL 3           R2-APARTMENTS (IBC)                 27,768 SF                                                                         UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC ADA               1       1,088 SF                                UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END       2       966 SF                     LEVEL 4               26      4,832 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING B: 4                                            12,348 SF       LEVEL 4           R2-APARTMENTS (IBC)                 27,768 SF                                                                         UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END                  2       1,163 SF                                UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        2       1,099 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 5           AMENITY - LEVEL 5 (IBC)             2,531 SF                                                                          LEVEL 3                              39      8,850 SF                                UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END       2       1,163 SF                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM       12      680 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING C                                                               LEVEL 5           R2-APARTMENTS (IBC)                 25,237 SF                                                                                                                                                              LEVEL 4                   22      5,555 SF                   UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC    4       702 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 1          AMENITY - PT DECK (IBC)                 13,672 SF       PARKING           PARKING AREA (IBC)                  39,286 SF                                                                         UNIT: 1 BEDROOM                      18      682 SF                                                                                               UNIT: 2 BEDROOM       1       469 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 5          AMENITY - LEVEL 5 (IBC)                 2,531 SF        PARKING           RETAIL - GRADE LEVEL (IBC)          14,040 SF                                                                         UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA                  1       757 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM           5       686 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END   2       966 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING C: 2                                            16,203 SF       BUILDING C: 10                                        211,014 SF                                                                        UNIT: 1 BEDROOM MOD                  2       633 SF                                  UNIT: 1 BEDROOM IC        2       701 SF                     UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC    4       1,088 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL AMENITY SF                                         37,567 SF       TOTAL BUILDING SF                                     637,527 SF                                                                        UNIT: 1 STUDIO C                     1       457 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM           8       937 SF                     UNIT: STUDIO A        1       457 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 2 BEDROOM                      5       938 SF                                  UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC        1       1,109 SF                   LEVEL 5               24      4,363 SF
                                                                                                     D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UNIT: 2 BEDROOM END
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 2 BEDROOM IC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           966 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,066 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC ADA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,088 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,163 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BUILDING C: 128
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL UNITS: 423
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      128
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      423
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              23,676 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              95,327 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC                   4       1,097 SF                                LEVEL 5                   19      5,683 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END                  1       1,163 SF                                BUILDING B: 105           105     30,465 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END ADA              1       1,163 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEVEL 4                              39      8,921 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 1 BEDROOM                      17      682 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 1 BEDROOM ADA                  1       757 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 1 BEDROOM MOD                  2       633 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 1 STUDIO C                     1       457 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 2 BEDROOM                      5       938 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 2 BEDROOM IC                   4       1,066 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC                   3       1,094 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 2 BEDROOM OC ADA               1       1,106 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNIT: 3 BEDROOM END                  2       1,163 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEVEL 5                              36      7,896 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BUILDING A: 190                      190     41,185 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I-15 ON RAM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PONY EXPRESS ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (PUBLIC STREET)



                                                                                                 C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AMENITY DECK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12300 SOUTH PONY EXPRESS ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BUILDING C1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COURTYARD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AMENITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AMENITY COURTYARD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TRIVIEW PHASE II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AMENITY DECK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DARPER UT, 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PHASE 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PICKLEBALL        PICKLEBALL


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VALET DOG SPA




                                                                                                         B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B
C:\Users\jmalaska\Documents\TRI-VIEW 2 SITE v20 OPTION 3_jmalaska@beecherwalker.com.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JORDAN AND SALT LAKE CANAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12300 SO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VAN VAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WILLOW CREEK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F 801.438.9501

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20 BC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     44 T


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BEECHERWALKER.COM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         451.1802
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LONE PEAK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DWN BY                        CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARKWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DG, JM                          DV
                                                                                                         A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (PUBLIC STR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EE   T)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A                                         SCHEMATIC
PRINTED AT 10/1/2020 5:05:44 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITE PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAWING NUMBER


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OVERALL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1" = 60'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                                                2                                                                                                    3                                                                                                               4                                                                                                     5                                                                       6                                                                                              7
                               Draper - Tri-View II
                               Traffic Impact Study




         APPENDIX D
95th Percentile Queue Length Reports
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis: Existing (2021) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                             Project #: UT21-1826

                                                               NB                   SB                  EB               WB
                     Intersection                  L LR    LT LTR R      T   L LTR R    T TR L LR      R   T TR L LTR T TR
01: Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South               320 --    --   -- 304 840 293 -- 182 252 -- 209 --   -- 492 398 494 -- 378 352
02: Pony Express Drive & 12650 South               -- --   42    --  --  --  -- --  --  --  7  46 --   46 --   --  -- --   -- --
03: Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South                71 --    --   --  20 174 93  --  --  -- 108 28 --   --  -- 49 --   92   -- --
04: West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South    -- --    --  34   --  --  -- 56  --  --  -- 45 --   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
05: East Business Access & 12650 South             -- 37    --   --  --  --  -- --  --  --  -- -- --   --  --  --  9  --   -- --
06: Pony Express Drive & Access 2                  -- --   16    --  --  --  -- --  --  --  -- -- 22   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
07: Pony Express Drive & Access 3                  -- --    7    --  --  --  -- --  --  --  -- -- 23   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
08: Pony Express Drive & Access 4                  -- --   10    --  --  --  -- --  --  --  -- -- 21   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
09: Pony Express Drive & Access 5                  -- --   10    --  --  --  -- --  --  --  -- -- 29   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis: Mitigated Existing (2021) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                             Project #: UT21-1826

                                                               NB                   SB                  EB               WB
                     Intersection                  L LR    LT LTR R      T   L LTR R    T TR L LR      R   T TR L LTR T TR
01: Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South               114 --    --   -- 275 246 321 -- 192 302 -- 288 --   -- 567 403 353 -- 284 308
02: Pony Express Drive & 12650 South               -- --   46    --  --  --  -- --  --  -- 12 46 --    45 --   --  -- --   -- --
03: Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South                42 --    --   --  20 159 93  --  --  -- 113 29 --   --  -- 51 --   90   -- --
04: West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South    -- --    --  34   --  --  -- 54  --  --  -- 43 --   --  --  --  -- --   -- 2
05: East Business Access & 12650 South             -- 37    --   --  --  --  -- --  --  --  -- -- --   --  --  -- 10  --   -- --
06: Pony Express Drive & Access 2                  -- --    9    --  --  --  -- --  --  --  -- -- 22   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
07: Pony Express Drive & Access 3                  -- --    9    --  --  --  -- --  --  --  -- -- 22   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
08: Pony Express Drive & Access 4                  -- --    6    --  --  --  -- --  --  --  -- -- 22   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
09: Pony Express Drive & Access 5                  -- --   10    --  --  --  -- --  --  --  -- -- 31   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis: Existing (2021) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                                             Project #: UT21-1826

                                                               NB                    SB             SW                  EB               WB
                     Intersection                  L LR    LT LTR R    T TR L LTR R      T TR    L    R     L    LR    R   T TR L LTR T TR
01: Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South               208 --    -- -- 297 369 -- 361 -- 218 578 --   --   --   409    --   -- 718 425 472 -- 338 325
02: Pony Express Drive & 12650 South               -- --   20  --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- 5    --   --    41    --   42 --   --  -- --   -- --
03: Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South                62 --    -- --  24 145 -- 64  --  --  -- 85   --   --    28    --   --  -- 47 --   66   -- --
04: West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South    -- --    -- 34  --  -- --  -- 47  --  -- --   --   --    23    --   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
05: East Business Access & 12650 South             -- 38    -- --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --    --   --  --  --  9  --   -- --
06: Pony Express Drive & Access 2                  -- --    3  --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   20    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
07: Pony Express Drive & Access 3                  -- --    3  --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   18    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
08: Pony Express Drive & Access 4                  -- --    -- --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   17    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
09: Pony Express Drive & Access 5                  -- --    -- --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   17    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
10: Pony Express Drive & Access 6                  -- --    3  --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   17    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
11: Access 7                                       -- --    -- --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   17    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
12: Lone Peak Parkway & West Access                -- --    -- --  --  -- 16 144 --  -- 55 --    46 122     --    --   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis: Future (2026) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                          Project #: UT21-1826

                                                               NB                    SB                  EB             WB
                     Intersection                  L LR    LT LTR R    T TR L LTR R      T TR L LR      R   T TR L      T TR
01: Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South               136 --    -- -- 493 633 -- 438 -- 218 450 -- 555 --   -- 916 431 413 329 350
02: Pony Express Drive & 12650 South               -- --   42  --  --  --  --  -- -- --  -- 11 44 --    45 --   --  --  --  --
03: Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South                85 --    -- --  -- 446 449 101 -- -- 61 66 33 --     --  -- 49 29 -- 90
04: West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South    -- --    -- 37  --  --  --  -- 57 --  -- -- 44 --    --  --  --  --  --  --
05: East Business Access & 12650 South             -- 43    -- --  --  --  --  -- -- --  -- --  -- --   --  --  --  9   --  --
06: Pony Express Drive & Access 2                  -- --    9  --  --  --  --  -- -- --  -- --  -- 25   --  --  --  --  --  --
07: Pony Express Drive & Access 3                  -- --    9  --  --  --  --  -- -- --  -- --  -- 25   --  --  --  --  --  --
08: Pony Express Drive & Access 4                  -- --   10  --  --  --  --  -- -- --  -- --  -- 25   --  --  --  --  --  --
09: Pony Express Drive & Access 5                  -- --   11  --  --  --  --  -- -- --  -- --  -- 31   --  --  --  --  --  --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis: Mitigated Future (2026) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                             Project #: UT21-1826

                                                               NB                   SB                  EB               WB
                     Intersection                  L LR    LT LTR R      T   L LTR R    T TR L LR      R   T TR L     R   T TR
01: Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South               106 --    --   -- 195 166 317 -- 187 291 -- 236 --   -- 497 397 252 81 335 --
02: Pony Express Drive & 12650 South               -- --   42    --  --  --  -- --  --  -- 9   46 --   44 --   --  -- --  -- --
03: Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South                63 --    --   --  14 101 142 --  -- 76 83 32 --     --  -- 50 31 --    -- 93
04: West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South    -- --    --  37   --  --  -- 51  --  -- -- 44 --    --  --  --  -- --  -- --
05: East Business Access & 12650 South             -- 42    --   --  --  --  -- --  --  -- --  -- --   --  --  -- 11 --   -- --
06: Pony Express Drive & Access 2                  -- --   10    --  --  --  -- --  --  -- --  -- 22   --  --  --  -- --  -- --
07: Pony Express Drive & Access 3                  -- --    9    --  --  --  -- --  --  -- --  -- 23   --  --  --  -- --  -- --
08: Pony Express Drive & Access 4                  -- --    4    --  --  --  -- --  --  -- --  -- 23   --  --  --  -- --  -- --
09: Pony Express Drive & Access 5                  -- --   12    --  --  --  -- --  --  -- --  -- 31   --  --  --  -- --  -- --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis: Future (2026) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                                             Project #: UT21-1826

                                                               NB                    SB             SW                  EB               WB
                     Intersection                  L LR    LT LTR R    T TR L LTR R      T TR    L    R     L    LR    R   T TR L LTR R       T
01: Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South               131 --    -- -- 204 157 -- 338 -- 211 395 --   --   --   339    --   -- 576 415 302 -- 116 282
02: Pony Express Drive & 12650 South               -- --   16  --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- 5    --   --    36    --   40 --   --  -- --   -- --
03: Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South                66 --    -- --  14 88 -- 67   --  -- 72 74    --   --    31    --   --  -- 50 --   69   -- --
04: West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South    -- --    -- 37  --  -- --  -- 48  --  -- --   --   --    27    --   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
05: East Business Access & 12650 South             -- 42    -- --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --    --   --  --  -- 10  --   -- --
06: Pony Express Drive & Access 2                  -- --    5  --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   13    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
07: Pony Express Drive & Access 3                  -- --    -- --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   20    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
08: Pony Express Drive & Access 4                  -- --    3  --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   16    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
09: Pony Express Drive & Access 5                  -- --    -- --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   19    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
10: Pony Express Drive & Access 6                  -- --    -- --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   17    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
11: Pony Express Drive & Access 7                  -- --    -- --  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --   --   --    --   14    --  --  --  -- --   -- --
12: Lone Peak Parkway & West Access                -- --    -- --  --  6  12 180 --  -- 90 --    40 117     --    --   --  --  --  -- --   -- --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis: Future (2050) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                                            Project #: UT21-1826

                                                                                                                                                B1
                                                               NB                    SB                         EB                  WB
                                                                                                                                                2
                     Intersection                  L LR    LT LTR R      T   L LTR R     T   TR     L    LR    R    T   TR L     R   T TR      T
01: Lone Peak Parkway & 12300 South               226 --    --   -- 410 716 708 -- 222 1,022 --    710    --   -- 1,510 387 406 271 388 --     17
02: Pony Express Drive & 12650 South               -- --   40    --  --  --  -- --  --   --   9    49     --   47   --   --  --  --  --  --    --
03: Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South               119 --    --   -- 64 260 150 --   --  124 147    91     --   --   --  100 55 --    -- 168    --
04: West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South    -- --    --  36   --  --  -- 54  --   --   --   50     --   --   --   --  --  --  --  --    --
05: East Business Access & 12650 South             -- 44    --   --  --  --  -- --  --   --   --    --    --   --   --   -- 10 --    --  --    --
06: Pony Express Drive & Access 2                  -- --    7    --  --  --  -- --  --   --   --    --   27    --   --   --  --  --  --  --    --
07: Pony Express Drive & Access 3                  -- --    7    --  --  --  -- --  --   --   --    --   19    --   --   --  --  --  --  --    --
08: Pony Express Drive & Access 4                  -- --    7    --  --  --  -- --  --   --   --    --   22    --   --   --  --  --  --  --    --
09: Pony Express Drive & Access 5                  -- --   14    --  --  --  -- --  --   --   2     --   33    --   --   --  --  --  --  --    --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis: Mitigated Future (2050) Background
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                         Project #: UT21-1826

                                                                 NB                     SB                      EB              WB
                     Intersection                 L    LR    LT LTR     R     T   L LTR T      TR    L    LR      R    TR    L TR
01: Pony Express Drive & 12650 South              --    --   42    --   --    --  -- --   --   12    48    --    46     --   --  --
02: Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South               65    --    --   --   8    179 101 --  76    86    79    --     --   90    45 163
03: West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South   --    --    --  39    --    --  -- 58   --    --   48    --     --    --   --  --
04: East Business Access & 12650 South            --   44     --   --   --    --  -- --   --    --   --    --     --    --   10 --
05: Pony Express Drive & Access 2                 --    --   13    --   --    --  -- --   --    --   --   20      --    --   --  --
06: Pony Express Drive & Access 3                 --    --    9    --   --    --  -- --   --    --   --   20      --    --   --  --
07: Pony Express Drive & Access 4                 --    --    8    --   --    --  -- --   --    --   --   25      --    --   --  --
08: Pony Express Drive & Access 5                 --    --    8    --   --    --  -- --   --    --   --   31      --    --   --  --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Tri-View II TIS Update
Analysis: Future (2050) Plus Project
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                                     Project #: UT21-1826

                                                                 NB                     SB              SW              EB              WB
                     Intersection                 L    LR    LT LTR   R     T TR L LTR T       TR    L    R  L    LR      R    TR    L LTR
01: Pony Express Drive & 12650 South              --    --   19  --   --    -- -- -- --   --    8    --   -- 40    --    42     --   --  --
02: Lone Peak Parkway & 12650 South               56    --    -- --   8    185 -- 77 --  75    84    --   -- 70    --     --   76    -- 111
03: West Business Access/Access 1 & 12650 South   --    --    -- 36   --    -- -- -- 48   --    --   --   -- 23    --     --    --   --  --
04: East Business Access & 12650 South            --   42     -- --   --    -- -- -- --   --    --   --   -- --    --     --    --   11  --
05: Pony Express Drive & Access 2                 --    --    5  --   --    -- -- -- --   --    --   --   -- --   16      --    --   --  --
06: Pony Express Drive & Access 3                 --    --    -- --   --    -- -- -- --   --    --   --   -- --   16      --    --   --  --
07: Pony Express Drive & Access 4                 --    --    3  --   --    -- -- -- --   --    --   --   -- --   18      --    --   --  --
08: Pony Express Drive & Access 5                 --    --    3  --   --    -- -- -- --   --    --   --   -- --   20      --    --   --  --
09: Pony Express Drive & Access 6                 --    --    3  --   --    -- -- -- --   --    --   --   -- --   20      --    --   --  --
10: Pony Express Drive & Access 7                 --    --    -- --   --    -- -- -- --   --    --   --   -- --   16      --    --   --  --
11: Lone Peak Parkway & West Access               --    --    -- --   --    5  8 144 --  90     --   32 105 --     --     --    --   --  --
                                          MEMORANDUM

Date:            April 28, 2021

To:              Draper City

From:            Hales Engineering


Subject:         Draper Tri-View II Comment Response
                                                                                             UT21-1826

This memorandum discusses the study completed for the Phase II Tri-View project located in
Draper, Utah. The comments by A-Trans are shown in black and the responses are in red.

1. Table ES-1; The roadway is “12300 South” not “12600 South” – This error occurs in multiple
places within the report. We will fix this in the update.

2. Page ii states “Trips associated with buildings that currently exist in Phase II of the project area
removed” What trips are removed? How was this determined and where is the explanation? Every
trip to and from Pony Express Drive to the north of the 12650 South / Pony Express Drive
intersection was removed since all structures along that stretch of road will be demolished to
make way for Phase II of the Tri-View project. Please see the site plan for further clarification on
the extents of the project area.

3. Page ii states “Poor LOS at the West Access / Lone Peak Pkwy intersection” The SWL operates
at LOS F and continues to decline as traffic increases. What alternate routes are available for this
traffic and at what point does the LOS become so high the travel time of an alternate route
becomes more optimal for travelers? This sort of analysis is typically completed with a travel
demand model for larger areas but is not completed at this micro level of analyses. Experience
with congested corridors shows us that traffic will naturally reroute to a different project access.

4. Page 5 states “Traffic volumes from Phase I of the development were added.” Where do these
numbers come from? There is no reference to any other TIA? We reviewed the volumes in the
2019 TIA and the trip assignment (Figure 4) does not match the existing traffic volumes (Figure
2) so where are these projections coming from? Phase I has changed since the prior study. See
the comparison below:

      •   Prior: 434 apartments (434 current)
      •   Prior: 15 nightly rental units (14 current)
      •   Prior: 17,500 sq. ft. fitness club (7,100 current)
      •   Prior: 3,000 sq. ft. restaurant (2,200 current)



                          1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                                         www.halesengineering.com
We can provide the trip generation numbers for you if you would like a direct comparison.

5. Page 8; It is very unclear what is Phase I traffic and Phase II traffic. In Section B, is this only
Phase II trips or Phase I and Phase II added together? The site plan (Figure 1) shows the entire
area and there are references to Phase I traffic being added and Phase II traffic being removed
but no description of what exists what is planned and where it is all located and how it interacts.
Please clarify what is existing, and planned across the full site and what trip assignments and
adjustments were made? The purpose of this study is simply to examine the impact of Phase II,
as is implied in the title. In the prior chapter, in the traffic volumes section, it states that project
traffic from Phase I was added to the background. All background scenarios are just with Phase
I, and all plus project scenarios contain the full development, Phase II.

6. Page 11; The access discussion talks about Phase I of the development, but there is no
reference to Phase I. How much traffic is this and how were the existing numbers determined?
See above comments.

7. Page 11 last paragraph states “It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled and that
some Phase I traffic will use it.” What phase I traffic? How was it redistributed? See above
comment. We can provide a diagram of how it was redistributed.

8. Page 11; Add a discussion of the city standards for access spacing and if the proposed
accesses meet these requirements? Also, how are the accesses measured? End of radius to end
of radius or center to center? The prior document was completed to UDOT spacing standards
and with the TIS update we will switch to the Draper City standards.

9. Figure 4; The SBL at West Access / Lone Peak Parkway, existing traffic (Figure 2) added to
site traffic (Figure 3) does not add up. There is some kind of redistribution of existing traffic but
no explanation of what was done? An additional figure showing the redistribution of the existing
traffic would help to clarify. Yes. See the comment for #7.

10. Mitigations at Lone Peak Pkwy / 12300 South are assumed in 2021 and 2026 for the
background scenarios. Are these improvements recommended or are they planned by UDOT?
If UDOT is not currently in the process of making these improvements, is the developer planning
to coordinate with UDOT for these improvements to be completed? These improvements are
recommended, but they are recommended in the background scenarios. Because the need for
these improvements is triggered by current conditions or background growth on Lone Peak
Parkway and 12300 South, UDOT and/or the City would be responsible for them. In recent
discussions with UDOT and Draper City, these improvements were discussed and UDOT is in the
process of completing a corridor study to evaluate these improvements.

11. The plus project analysis assumes that these improvements have been implemented. What
happens if they are not made? What is the impact of the site on this intersection if these
improvements are not made in the time frame of the development? Please provide analysis of
the intersection and the Western Access if these improvements are not made. Discuss the
queueing between the NB approach at 12300 East and the SBL movement at the West Access?


                        1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                                       www.halesengineering.com
An analysis without the proposed improvements at the Lone Peak Parkway / 12300 South
intersection would likely show queues that extend southward from 12300 South past the West
Access in future (2026 and 2040) conditions. Movements from the West Access would likely need
to rely on “courtesy gaps” from northbound vehicles to exit the site via the West Access. The West
Access / Lone Peak Parkway intersection would most likely operate at a LOS F; however, several
existing accesses along 12300 South also operate at LOS F in Draper City under current
conditions, and these accesses cannot be signalized or mitigated to an acceptable LOS D or
better.




                       1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                                      www.halesengineering.com
   EXHIBIT H
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                    LANDSCAPE SCHEDULE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D               E               S   I    G N
                                                                                                                                                          Sym       Qnty.                                    Botanical Name                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Common Name                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Size                                                              LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                             TREES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GN I NN A L P                                                                                                                                                                                                           DN A L                                    &

                                                                                                                  R O AD                                              8                                      Acer trun. x A. plat. 'Keithsform'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Norwegian Sunset Maple                                                                                                                                                                                        6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                                                            RES S
                                                                                             N Y EXP                                                                  24                                        Amelanchier x grand. 'Autumn Brilliance' A. B. Serviceberry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1375 E. PERRYS HOLLOW ROAD
                                                                                          PO                                          BENCH                           11                                        Cercis canadensis - clump                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Clump Eastern Redbud30148 HATU , 15    YT IGal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C EKAL TLAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sunburst Honeylocust1 6 . 4 5 5   . 1   0   8 O     M/ TXT / HP
                                                                                                                                                                      20                                        Gleditsia tri. inermis 'Sunburst'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6'MO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Min/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C . CL LNCal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G I S *EDBTS@TTOCS
                            IRR IRR




                                                                                                                                                                      22                                        Malus 'Spring Snow'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Spring Snow Crabapple                                                                                                                                                                                         6' Min/2" Cal. *
                           WM




                                                                                                                                                                      7                                         Prunus sargentii 'Columnaris'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Columnar Sargent Cherry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                      3                                         Prunus virginiana 'Canada Red'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Canada Red Cherry                                                                                                                                                                                             6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                                                 BENCH                                                                7                                         Pyrus calleryana 'Javelin'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Javelin Flowering Pear                                                                                                                                                                                        6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                                                                                                                      17                                        Quercus robur fastigiata                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Columnar Oak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                      13                                        Syringa reticulata 'Ivory Silk'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ivory Silk Tree Lilac                                                                                                                                                                                         6' Min/2" Cal. *
                 TRAFFIC




                                                                                                                                                                      33                                        Zelkova serrata 'Mushashino'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mushashino Zelkova                                                                                                                                                                                            6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                  S


                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                      15                                          Zelkova serrata 'Village Green'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Village Green Zelkova                                                                                                                                                                                          6' Min/2" Cal. *                                                                                       ISSUE DESCRIP.                          DATE

                                                               BENCH                                                                                                                                            SHRUBS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           03.23.2021
                                      Y D




                                                                                                                                                                      48                                     Buxus microphylla asiatic 'Winter Gem'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Winter Gem Boxwood                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 Gal.
                                                                                                                            LEVEL 5
                                      H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             # REV. DESCRIPTION DATE
                                                                                                                                                                     55                                         Caryopteris x clandonensis 'Dark Knight' Dark Knight Bluebeard                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5 Gal.
                                                                                                                           AMENITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ivory Halo Dogwood
    SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                      57                                        Cornus alba 'Bailhalo'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 Gal.
                                                                                                                             DECK                                                                          Ligustrum vulgare 'Lodense'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lodense Privet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                    114
                                                                                                           POOL            SEE L301                                   10                                          Potentilla fruticosa 'Monsidh' Frosty®                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Shrubby White Cinquefoil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5 Gal.
                                                                                                           20' X
                                                                                              SPA 10'       40'                                                                                                 Prunus besseyii                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sand Cherry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                      33




                                                                                                                                              SHT. L101
                                                                                                                                              SHT. L103
                                                                                               X 22'
                                                                                                                                                                      10                                        Rhamnus frangula Fine Line                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fine Line Buckthorn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          This drawing, as an instrument of
12300




                                                                                                                                                                      85                                          Taxus baccata repandens                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dwarf English Yew                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5 Gal.                                                      professional service, and shall not be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          used, in whole or part, for any other
                                                       BENCH                                                                                                         109                                          Viburnum opulus 'Compactum'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Compact Euo. Cranberry Bush                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5 Gal.                                                      project without the written permission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of SCOTT THOMAS BLAKE DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ORNAMENTAL GRASSES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L.L.C. Copyright © 2021
                                                                                                                                                                     289                                        Calamagrostis x acut. 'Karl Foerster'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Karl Foerster Feather Grass                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                     191                                        Calamagrostis x acut. 'Overdam'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Overdam Feather Grass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                     66                                    Chasmanthium latifolium                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Northern Sea Oats                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                     83                                    Miscanthus sinensis 'Gracillimus'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Slender Maiden Grass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                     89                                    Pennisetum alopecuroides 'JS Jommenik' Gold Fountain Grass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1 Gal.
         Y D




                                                                                          LEVEL 2 AMENITY DECK
    WV




         H
                                                                                                                                                                     52                                    Sesleria autumnalis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Autumn Moor Grass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 Gal.
                                                                                                  SEE L301                                                                                                 GROUNDCOVERS
                                                     BENCH                                                                                                           48                                    Aronia melancarpa Ground Hug                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ground Hug Spreading Chokeberry 1 Gal.

                                                                                      BUILDING                 A                                                   820 S.F.                                Euonymus fortunei 'Colorata'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Trailing Euonymus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                     187                                   Prunus besseyii 'Pawnee Buttes'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pawnee Buttes Sand Cherry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                     122                                   Rhus aromatica 'Grow Low'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Grow Low Sumac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            TURF
                                                                                                                                                                25,200 S.F.                                Chanshare Imperial Blue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sod
                                                                                                                                                                                                           MULCH

                                                       BENCH                                                                                                                                               Nephi Sandstone, Red Shale, 1" or Approved Equal-All Planters Unless Noted Min. 3"
                                                                   BENCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Path - Crusher Fines




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TRI-VIEW APARTMENTS
                                            WLV

                                             Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOWSTRIP
                                             D




                                                 H

               DOG PARK                                                                                                                                                                                    Metal - 4" x 3/16"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * - 2" Caliper as Measured 6" above Root Ball




                                                                           PROJECT BOUNDARY
x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                               IRRIGATION CANAL AND POWER CORRIDOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A-05                                                      A-04                     A-03              A-02   A-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A-18    A-17 A-16                                                              A-15       A-14    A-13                                                                             12        PONY   EXPRESS          ROAD                    43.0              POC    12               21.0   37.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         32.0     12   33.6        PONY     EXPRESS          ROAD                        12        32.0    21.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1"                                                                               1"                                                        2"           B          1"                1"     1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TIE TO PROJECT MAINLINE w/ 2"                         12                                1 1/2"     1" 1 1/2"                                                              1"      1 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R O A D A-25                         POC     CONNECTION . COORD. EXACT                             1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A-23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ESS                    A-24                        LOCATION w/ PROJECT REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXPR                           38.8     12        B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S               S                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PONY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            27.6              1"                                            S               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1 1/2"   1 1/2"                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A-26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TIE TO PROJECT MAINLINE w/ 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONNECTION . COORD. EXACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A-27                  1"                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOCATION w/ PROJECT REP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A-28          12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A-29     27.6         1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTROLLER A -




                                                                                                                                                                                         IRR IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 STATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                        WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1 1/2"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING               B                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                                              TRAFFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S                             S   S


                                                                                                                                                                                                           A-30
                                                                                                                                                                                                            12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                   A-31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                    44.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L101
                                                                                                                                                                                                     2"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           POOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SPA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHT. L203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHT. L201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S                                                                                                                                                         S                      S                                                 S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHT. L201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHT. L202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BUILDING                   A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LANDSCAPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT BOUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SPA                             S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PICKLEBALL                                                                                                                                S                                           BUILDING                        C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WLV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S                                                                                                     S                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D   HY                                                                                                     S                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                            S                                                                                                                                                       S             S                         S           S                       WLV                                    S       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A-20                                                                                                                     A-10    A-11 A-12                                           D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A-22              S                                                                                                                               S                                          33.3    22.2  12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                                                                                                                    S                                                                                                                                                                                  12                                                                   1"                                                                                                                    1 1/2"    1"   1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A-08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A-21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A-09   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A-07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12                                                                                                                                     33.6     A-06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        36.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1"                                                                                                                                    1 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WLV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT BOUNDARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT BOUNDARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                      A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING A - LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SCALE: 1"=20'-0" NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LANDSCAPE SCHEDULE                                                                                                                                                                                          D               E               S   I    G N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sym                                                      Qnty.                              Botanical Name                                                                                                                                                            LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TREESG N I N N A L P                                                                                                          DN A L                                      &
                                                             PONY        EXPRESS     ROAD                                                                                                                                                                                                           8                            Acer trun. x A. plat. 'Keithsform'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   24                            Amelanchier x grand. 'Autumn Brilliance'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1375 E. PERRYS HOLLOW ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11                            Cercis canadensis - 3clump
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0148 HATU , YT I C EKAL TLAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20                                             6 4 1 6  . 455 . 1 0 8 O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Gleditsia tri. inermis 'Sunburst'            M/ TXT / HP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OC . CL LNG I S EDBTS@
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TTOCS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22                            Malus 'Spring Snow'
                                                BENCH                         BENCH                                    BENCH                                                                                                                                                                        7                            Prunus sargentii 'Columnaris'
            Y D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3                            Prunus virginiana 'Canada Red'
            H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7                            Pyrus calleryana 'Javelin'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   17                            Quercus robur fastigiata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13                            Syringa reticulata 'Ivory Silk'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   33                            Zelkova serrata 'Mushashino'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15                            Zelkova serrata 'Village Green'                                                                                                                                            ISSUE DESCRIP.                          DATE

                                                                           BUILDING         B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHRUBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Buxus microphylla asiatic 'Winter Gem'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  03.23.2021

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              # REV. DESCRIPTION DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   55                            Caryopteris x clandonensis 'Dark Knight'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   57                            Cornus alba 'Bailhalo'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   114                     Ligustrum vulgare 'Lodense'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10                            Potentilla fruticosa 'Monsidh' Frosty®




                                                                                                                                      SHT. L101
                                                                                                                                      SHT. L102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   33                            Prunus besseyii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10                            Rhamnus frangula Fine Line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           This drawing, as an instrument of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    85                           Taxus baccata repandens                                                                                                                                                   professional service, and shall not be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           used, in whole or part, for any other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   109                           Viburnum opulus 'Compactum'                                                                                                                                               project without the written permission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of SCOTT THOMAS BLAKE DESIGN
SHT. L101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ORNAMENTAL GRASSES
SHT. L103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L.L.C. Copyright © 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   289                           Calamagrostis x acut. 'Karl Foerster'
                         LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   191                           Calamagrostis x acut. 'Overdam'
                        AMENITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    66                        Chasmanthium latifolium
                          DECK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     83                       Miscanthus sinensis 'Gracillimus'
                        SEE L301                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   89                       Pennisetum alopecuroides 'JS Jommenik'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   52                       Sesleria autumnalis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GROUNDCOVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   48                       Aronia melancarpa Ground Hug
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              820 S.F.                                      Euonymus fortunei 'Colorata'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   187                      Prunus besseyii 'Pawnee Buttes'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   122                     Rhus aromatica 'Grow Low'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TURF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      25,200 S.F.                                                           Chanshare Imperial Blue
                                                         LEVEL 5   SPA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MULCH
                                                                             PICKLEBALL
                                                        AMENITY                  w/ 10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Nephi Sandstone, Red Shale, 1" or Approved Equal-All Planters Unless Noted

                                                          DECK                 Chainlink                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Path - Crusher Fines




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TRI-VIEW APARTMENTS
                                                                                Fencing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MOWSTRIP
                                                        SEE L301               Enclosure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Metal - 4" x 3/16"
            Y D
            H




                  WLV




                                                                                                   Y




                                                                                                   D

                                                                                                       H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER, UTAH
                             PROJECT BOUNDARY
                                                                                                IRRIGATION CANAL AND POWER CORRIDOR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PONY   EXPRESS          ROAD                   POC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PONY     EXPRESS          ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TIE TO PROJECT MAINLINE w/ 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROAD   POC   CONNECTION . COORD. EXACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ESS                LOCATION w/ PROJECT REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXPR
                                                                                                                                                                                                             PONY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TIE TO PROJECT MAINLINE w/ 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONNECTION . COORD. EXACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOCATION w/ PROJECT REP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONTROLLER A -




                                                                                                                                                         IRR IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 STATIONS




                                                                                                                                                        WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUILDING               B




                                                                                                                                              TRAFFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                      S


                                                                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                       Y
                                                                                                                                                                   H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L102




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHT. L203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHT. L201




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHT. L201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHT. L202
                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING      A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT BOUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SPA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PICKLEBALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUILDING     C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H
                                                                                                                                                                           WLV

                                                                                                                                                                            D   HY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WLV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT BOUNDARY



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WLV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT BOUNDARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT BOUNDARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                        A                                                                                                                 BUILDING B - LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SCALE: 1"=20'-0" NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L102
                                                                                                                                                            LANDSCAPE GENERAL NOTES                                                                                             LANDSCAPE SCHEDULE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D              E                S   I    G N
                                                   PONY       EXPRESS   ROAD                                                                                                                                                                                       Sym          Qnty.               Botanical Name                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Common Name                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Size                                                                         LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
                                                                                                                                                     1.     Contractor shall locate and verify the existence of all utilities within project area prior to
                                                                                                                                                            commencement of work.                                                                                                                   TREES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GN I NN A L P                                                                                                                                                                                                             DN A L                              &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8                 Acer trun. x A. plat. 'Keithsform'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Norwegian Sunset Maple                                                                                                                                                                                          6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                                                                                                     2.     Do not commence planting operation until rough grading has been completed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24                Amelanchier x grand. 'Autumn Brilliance' A. B. Serviceberry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                                            BENCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1375 E. PERRYS HOLLOW ROAD




                                                                                                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                     3.     All plants shall bear the same relationship to finished grade as the original grade before                            11                Cercis canadensis - clump                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Clump Eastern Redbud 30148 HATU 15, YGal.




                                                                                                                                              Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T I C EKAL TLAS
                                                                                                                                          E                 digging.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6 4 1 6 . 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20                Gleditsia tri. inermis 'Sunburst'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sunburst Honeylocust          5 5 . 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6' Min/2" Cal.8 * OM/ TXT / HP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OC . CL LNG I S EDBTS@
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TTOCS
                                                                                                                                                     4.     All alterations to these drawings during construction shall be approved by the Project                                22                Malus 'Spring Snow'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Spring Snow Crabapple                                                                                                                                                                                           6' Min/2" Cal. *
            Y D
            H




                                                                                                                                                            Representative and recorded on "as Built" drawings by the Contractor.                                                                   Prunus sargentii 'Columnaris'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Columnar Sargent Cherry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                     5.     Pre-emergent herbicide shall be used prior to mulch placement.                                                        3                 Prunus virginiana 'Canada Red'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Canada Red Cherry                                                                                                                                                                                               6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7                 Pyrus calleryana 'Javelin'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Javelin Flowering Pear                                                                                                                                                                                          6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                                                    SMALL                                            6.     All plant materials shall conform to the minimum guidelines established by the American
                                                                                                  DOG RUN                                                   Standard for Nursery Stock, published by the American Nursery Association, Inc.                                       17                Quercus robur fastigiata                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Columnar Oak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20 Gal.
                                                                                                  w/ 6' Metal                                                                                                                                                                     13                Syringa reticulata 'Ivory Silk'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ivory Silk Tree Lilac                                                                                                                                                                                           6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                                                 Picket Fence                                        7.     All plants to be balled and burlapped or container grown, unless otherwise noted on the
                                                                                                  Enclosure                                                 plant list.                                                                                                           33                Zelkova serrata 'Mushashino'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mushashino Zelkova                                                                                                                                                                                              6' Min/2" Cal. *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15                Zelkova serrata 'Village Green'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Village Green Zelkova                                                                                                                                                                                           6' Min/2" Cal. *                                                                                                    ISSUE DESCRIP.                           DATE
                                                                                                                                                     8.     Any proposed substitutions of plant species shall be made with plants of equivalent overall
                                                                                                                                                            form, height, branching habit, flower, leaf color, fruit and culture only as approved by the                                            SHRUBS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    03.23.2021
                                                                                                                                                            Project Representative.                                                                                               48                Buxus microphylla asiatic 'Winter Gem'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Winter Gem Boxwood                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         # REV. DESCRIPTION DATE
                                                                                                                                                     9.     The Contractor shall locate and verify all existing utility lines prior to planting and shall                        55                 Caryopteris x clandonensis 'Dark Knight' Dark Knight Bluebeard                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                            report any conflicts to the Landscape Architect.                                                                      57                Cornus alba 'Bailhalo'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ivory Halo Dogwood                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                114                 Ligustrum vulgare 'Lodense'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lodense Privet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5 Gal.
SHT. L101
SHT. L102




                                                                                                                                                     10. Stake location of all proposed planting for approval by the Landscape Architect prior to
                                                                                                                                                         commencement of planting.                                                                                                10                Potentilla fruticosa 'Monsidh' Frosty®                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Shrubby White Cinquefoil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  33                Prunus besseyii                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sand Cherry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                     11.    All turf areas shall receive four inches (4") of topsoil prior to planting. All shrub,
                                                                                                                                                            groundcover, and perennial beds shall receive four inches (4") of topsoil prior to planting.                          10                Rhamnus frangula Fine Line                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fine Line Buckthorn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5 Gal.
                                                                                                    DOG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                This drawing, as an instrument of
                                                                                                   RUN w/                                                                                                                                                                         85                Taxus baccata repandens                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dwarf English Yew                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5 Gal.                                                           professional service, and shall not be
                                                                                                                                                     12. Submit topsoil report prepared by a qualified soil testing laboratory prior to soil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           used, in whole or part, for any other
                                                                                                   6' Metal                                              placement. Topsoil shall meet the following mechanical analysis:                                                        109                Viburnum opulus 'Compactum'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Compact Euo. Cranberry Bush                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 Gal.                                                            project without the written permission
                                                                                                    Picket                                                 Sand (0.05 - 2.0 mm Dia.) 20 - 70%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of SCOTT THOMAS BLAKE DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ORNAMENTAL GRASSES
                                                                                                    Fence                                                  Clay (0.002 - 0.05 mm Dia.) 20 - 70%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L.L.C. Copyright © 2021
                                                                                                  Enclosure                                              The max. retained on a #10 sieve will be 15 percent. the topsoil shall meet the                                         289                Calamagrostis x acut. 'Karl Foerster'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Karl Foerster Feather Grass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                         following analysis criteria:                                                                                            191                Calamagrostis x acut. 'Overdam'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Overdam Feather Grass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                         pH Range of 5.5 to 8.2, a min. of 4% and max. of 8% organic matter content and free
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 66                 Chasmanthium latifolium                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Northern Sea Oats                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                         of stones 43" or larger. Soluble salts <2 dS/m or mmho/cm and sodium absorption ration
                                                                                                                                                         (sar) <6.                                                                                                               83                 Miscanthus sinensis 'Gracillimus'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Slender Maiden Grass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 89                 Pennisetum alopecuroides 'JS Jommenik' Gold Fountain Grass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                     13.    All tree rings and plant beds to receive mulch as specified in the Landscape Schedule.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 52                 Sesleria autumnalis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Autumn Moor Grass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GROUNDCOVERS




                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 48                 Aronia melancarpa Ground Hug                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ground Hug Spreading Chokeberry 1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               820 S.F.             Euonymus fortunei 'Colorata'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Trailing Euonymus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 187                Prunus besseyii 'Pawnee Buttes'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pawnee Buttes Sand Cherry                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5 Gal.




                                                                                                                        NDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 122                Rhus aromatica 'Grow Low'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Grow Low Sumac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TURF




                                                                                                                              U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25,200 S.F.             Chanshare Imperial Blue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sod




                                                                                                                    PROJECT BO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MULCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nephi Sandstone, Red Shale, 1" or Approved Equal-All Planters Unless Noted Min. 3"
                                 LEVEL 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Path - Crusher Fines




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRI-VIEW APARTMENTS
                  SPA           AMENITY                       BUILDING     C                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MOWSTRIP
                                  DECK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Metal - 4" x 3/16"
                                SEE L301                                       DOG RUN w/ 6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * - 2" Caliper as Measured 6" above Root Ball
                                                                                 Metal Picket
                                                                               Fence Enclosure
            Y D
            H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2" DIA. WOOD POSTS IN UNDISTURBED SOIL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALIGN STAKES WITH DIRECTION OF PREVAILING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WIND. USE VINYL TWIST TIE TO SUPPORT TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXCAVATE PLANTING PIT SO THAT THE ROOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FLARE SHALL BE 1-2" ABOVE FINAL GRADE OR 10%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF ROOT BALL DEPTH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KEEP MULCH 3" AWAY FROM THE TREE TRUNK.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PLACE 1-2" DEPTH OF MULCH OVER THE ROOT BALL.
                                                                                                                                  H
                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                            Y D
                                                                                                        WLV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INSTALL 4' DIA. MIN. CIRCLE OF 3" DEEP MULCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AROUND TREE OUTSIDE OF ROOTBALL.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PLACE LANDSCAPE FABRIC UNDER MULCH WITH 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DIAMETER CLEAR CIRCLE AROUND TREE TRUNK.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INSTALL 2-4" WATER SAUCER AROUND TREE.
                             PROJECT BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A-05                                                      A-04                     A-03              A-02   A-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A-15       A-14    A-13                                                                                       PONY   EXPRESS          ROAD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FINISHED GRADE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A-18    A-17 A-16                                                                                                                                                                  12                                                        43.0              POC    12               21.0   37.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     32.0     12   33.6        PONY     EXPRESS          ROAD                        12        32.0    21.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1"                                                                               1"                                                        2"           B          1"                1"     1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TIE TO PROJECT MAINLINE w/ 2"                         12                                1 1/2"     1" 1 1/2"                                                              1"      1 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R O A D A-25                         POC     CONNECTION . COORD. EXACT                             1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A-23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ESS                    A-24                        LOCATION w/ PROJECT REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXPR                           38.8     12        B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S               S                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PONY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        27.6              1"                                            S               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 1/2"   1 1/2"                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A-26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TIE TO PROJECT MAINLINE w/ 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONNECTION . COORD. EXACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A-27                  1"                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOCATION w/ PROJECT REP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A-28          12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A-29     27.6         1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTROLLER A -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IRR IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      42.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 STATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 1/2"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SLOPE EDGES OF PLANTING PIT AT 45 DEGREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING               B                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                                     BALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TRAFFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S                             S   S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A-30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AND SCARIFY SIDES BEFORE PLANTING.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1"




                                                                                                                                                    DEPTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A-31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                44.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       POOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SPA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHT. L203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHT. L201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S                                                                                                                                                         S                      S                                                 S




                        IRRIGATION CANAL AND POWER CORRIDOR                                                                                                                                                        BACKFILL PLANTING PIT WITH NATIVE SOIL OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SPECIFIED BACKFILL MIX.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHT. L201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHT. L202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUILDING                   A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARY
                                                                                                                E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT BOUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SPA                             S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PICKLEBALL                                                                                                                                S                                           BUILDING                        C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LANDSCAPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AFTER PLACING TREE IN HOLE REMOVE WIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WLV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S                                                                                                     S                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D   HY                                                                                                     S                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S                                                                                                                                                       S             S                         S           S                       WLV                                    S       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S                                                                                                                                      A-10    A-11 A-12                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A-20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A-22              S                                                                                                                               S                                          33.3    22.2  12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S                                                                                                                                                                                  12                                                                   1"                                                                                                                    1 1/2"    1"   1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AND/OR BURLAP IF STABILITY OF THE ROOT BALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A-08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A-21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A-09   S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A-07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12                                                                                                                                     33.6     A-06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    36.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1"                                                                                                                                    1 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALLOWS. IF NOT CUT AND REMOVE THE TOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WLV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT BOUNDARY




                                                                                                                                                                   3X ROOT BALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT BOUNDARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HALF OF THE BURLAP WRAPPING AND WIRE
                                                                                                                                                                      DIAMETER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BASKETS. REMOVE ALL STRING AND TIES AT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOP OF THE ROOT BALL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UNDISTURBED OR 85% COMPACTED SOIL.


                                                                                                                                                      B                                                                                      TREE PLANTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOT TO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BUILDING C - LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCALE: 1"=20'-0" NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L103
