                            Development Review Committee
                                  1020 East Pioneer Road
                                    Draper, UT 84020



                                      STAFF REPORT
                                    September 28, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 14, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By:        Maryann Pickering, Planner III
                    Planning Division
                    Community Development Department
                    801-576-6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Kum & Go Store #2500 – Text Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-080-2021
        Applicant:        Nathan Abbott, representing Galloway & Co., Inc.
        Project Location: 13639 S. and 13691 S. 200 West
        Current Zoning: CSD-136C (136 Center Commercial Special District) Zone
        Acreage:          2.38 acres (approximately 103,673 square feet)
        Request:          Request for approval of a text amendment in the CSD-136C zone
                          regarding text changes to the DCMC (Draper City Municipal Code)
                          development standards, parking design, lighting design, and sign
                          sections of the DCMC 9-18L.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a text amendment for approximately 2.38
acres located on the east side of 200 West, at approximately 13639 S and 13691 S 200 W
(Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned CSD-136C. The applicant is requesting that a
text amendment be approved to change several sections of the existing commercial special
district. The subject properties are currently undeveloped and front onto 200 West and
Bangerter Highway.



Kum & Go Store #2500                                           Apps. # TEXTMAP-080-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                        1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Commercial
Special District land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the CSD-136C zoning classification (Exhibit D). According
to Section 9-18L-010 of the DCMC, the purpose of the zoning district is: “The 136 Center
Commercial Special District contains approximately 28.09 acres, located along 200 West
and 13800 South as shown in section 9-18L-100, exhibit A of this article. The size of the

Kum & Go Store #2500                                               App. # TEXTMAP-080-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                          2
property allows for a master-planned, mixed-use office park. The Draper City General
Plan's goals and objectives are reflected in the overall district elements such as land use,
architectural standards, signage, site design and landscape standards. The Commercial
District of the master plan aims to broaden the commercial tax base of the City while
providing amenities to the City residents.” The subject properties are surrounded by the
CSD-136C zoning to the east and south, CC (Community Commercial) to the west, and DC
(Destination Commercial) to the north.

Text Amendment. The applicant is planning on developing a gasoline service station with a
convenience store on the two subject properties. This text amendment application
addresses desired changes for the development of the site. Specifically DCMC Sections 9-
18L-030 Development Standards, Parking Design, Lighting Design and Section 9-18L-
Signage. All specific changes can be found in Exhibit E.

Section 9-18L-030 – Development Standards: The current standards found in Section 9-
18L-030(2)(c) limit all retail buildings to a single-story. The applicant is requesting that fuel
canopies for gasoline service stations be permitted up to 25 feet in height. The applicant is
also proposing two new subsections in the development standards to allow for public
address and music.

Section 9-18L-050 – Parking Design. The applicant is requesting this section be modified to
add parking for gasoline service stations and convenience stores at the adopted retail
parking ratio for the CSD.

Section 9-18L-060 – Lighting Design. The applicant is proposing to add a section which a
canopy lighting adequate for safe operation of the gasoline service station and
convenience store. The proposed lighting will be located under the canopy and directed
down. The average foot candle reading is 40 with a range of 15 to 60 foot candles.

Section 9-18L-070 – Signage. This is the section with the most changes in the text
amendment. The applicant is proposing to increase the height of monument signs for the
CSD from seven feet to eight feet tall.

Currently one pole sign is allowed on the I-15 frontage of the CSD. The applicant would like
to add another pole sign along the Bangerter Highway frontage. The height and width
would remain the same (35 feet tall by 25 feet wide), but there is a clarification statement
added that the total sign area for these signs would be no more than 300 square feet.

The remainder of the proposed changes for signs is to add three new sections. The first
would allow for gasoline price signs in the allowed sign area for pylon or monument signs
and that electronic message signs (or LED signs) are permitted. A second section added
allows for signs on the awning or canopy for the gasoline service station up to 32 square



Kum & Go Store #2500                                                App. # TEXTMAP-080-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                           3
feet per side. The final addition allows for flag poles on each lot of the CSD with a
maximum height of 40 feet.

The applicant has also agreed to include standard language that is now required in all new
CSD’s. They have proposed that it be included in the Development Standards, but staff
would recommend it be added to 9-18L-090 as procedures.

Criteria for Approval. A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in
making a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider
the following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

2.      Text Amendments:
        a.    Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
              policies of the city's general plan;
        b.    Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of
              the zoning ordinance;
        c.    Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
              request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
              ordinance;
        d.    The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
              part of this title or the general plan;
        e.    Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been
              evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or
              welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
        f.    The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
              professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Kum & Go Store #2500                                               App. # TEXTMAP-080-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                          4
Legal Review. The Draper City Legal has completed their review of the proposed zoning
text amendment and zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation based on the findings listed below and the criteria
for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

2.       Text Amendments:
         a.    The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
               general plan;
         b.    The amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
               ordinance;
         c.    The amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
               sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
         d.    The amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
               this title or the general plan;
         e.    The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
               determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
               represents an overall community benefit; and
         f.    The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
               practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices

The findings for denial as are follows:

2.       Text Amendments:
         a.    The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
               city's general plan;
         b.    The amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the
               zoning ordinance;
         c.    The amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
               there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
         d.    The amendment may create a conflict with any other section or part of this
               title or the general plan;




Kum & Go Store #2500                                               App. # TEXTMAP-080-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                          5
        e.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined may be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                represents an overall community benefit; and
        f.      The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
                professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the text amendment , as requested by Nate Abbott, representing Galloway
& Co., Inc. for application TEXTMAP-080-2021, based on the findings listed in the staff
report dated September 29, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the text amendment , as requested by Nate Abbott, representing
Galloway & Co., Inc. for application TEXTMAP-080-2021, based on the findings listed in the
staff report dated September 29, 2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment , as requested by Nate Abbott, representing Galloway &
Co., Inc. for application TEXTMAP-080-2021, based on the findings listed in the staff report
dated September 29, 2021.




Kum & Go Store #2500                                              App. # TEXTMAP-080-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                            6
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Legal Division Review.
No additional comments provided.




Kum & Go Store #2500                                  Apps. # TEXTMAP-080-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                      8
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
        EXHIBIT E
TEXT AMENDMENT REQUEST
                             Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment


Changes requested in legislative form.
Changes are being proposed to Article L. 136 Center Commercial Special District Sections:

      9-18L-030: Development Standards
      9-18L-050: Parking Design
      9-18L-060: Lighting Design
      9-18L-070: Signage

1. SECTION 9-18L-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
   2. Retail Buildings
       c. Building Height: Buildings shall be single-story. Fuel canopies shall be no more than
       twenty-five feet (25’) in height.
       f. Public address and music systems shall be designed and operated so they are not
       discernible at the property line of any lot or parcel containing a single-family home.


   C. Changes to the CSD fall under DCMC Section: 9-18-010(2)(F) Requirement for
   compliance with standards in this code covering development standards that are not being
   modified by the proposed CSD language. Chapters in this title that shall be included are
   chapters 20, 22, 23, 25, and 32. Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code shall also be
   referenced.
2. SECTION 9-18L-050: PARKING DESIGN
   B. Retail uses, to include Gasoline Service Stations and Convenience Stores, shall have
   the range of parking at a minimum of 3.5 stalls and a maximum of ten (10) stalls per one
   thousand (1,000) square feet.

3. SECTION 9-18L-060: LIGHTING DESIGN
   E. Canopy lighting shall provide adequate illumination for safe operation, while providing
   uniform lighting levels. Fixtures shall be a combination of directional and down-lighting, or as
   required to illuminate dispensers and general under-canopy area.

               1. The average light levels under the Auto Fuel Canopy shall be 40.0
                  footcandles measured at the ground.
               2. Minimum light levels to be 15 footcandles; maximum light levels to be 60
                  footcandles.

4. SECTION 9-18L-070: SIGNAGE
    A. One monument sign will be allowed per building. Each monument sign shall have a
   uniform, architecturally compatible design consistent with the 136 Center commercial special
   district design theme with faces not larger than one hundred (100) square feet. Locations
   must be approved by the city to ensure clearance of sight distance requirements at entries
   and adequate separation for readability. Monument signs shall not exceed seven feet (7')
   eight feet (8’) in height and fourteen feet (14') in width. Please see section 9-18L-100, exhibit
   H of this article.

   H. One pole sign shall be permitted on the I-15 frontage and one pole sign shall be
   permitted on the Bangerter Highway frontage. This These signs may be a multi-tenant sign,
   shall be designed to be architecturally compatible with the office park design theme and
   shall be no taller than thirty-five feet (35') and no wider than twenty-five feet (25'). The
   maximum allowed sign area shall be no more than three hundred (300) square feet.

   K. Gasoline price signs may be used in conjunction with allowed pylon or monument signs
   and shall be included in the area calculation for the sign. Electronic message center signs
   shall be permitted.

   L. Awning signs shall be allowed at 1 square foot of signage for each linear foot of awning,
   up to a maximum of 32 square feet per awning face.

   M. Flag poles shall be permitted on each lot, with a maximum height of forty-feet (40’).
Reasons Supporting the Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment request:
   1. The Applicant’s proposed uses (Gasoline Service Station and Convenience Store) are
      permitted uses with the 136 Center CSD per Section 9-18L-020: Permitted Uses.

   2. The development standards outlined in Section 9-18L-030: Development Standards do
      not address the unique characteristics of a Gasoline Service Station and/or Convenience
      Store.

   3. The Applicant desires to meet with the intent of the purpose of the 136 Center CSD per
      Section 9-18-L-010: Purpose by aligning with the established development standards,
      while accommodating for certain design elements that are not clearly defined in order to
      assure a predictable, cohesive integration into the existing development, broadening the
      commercial tax base of the City while providing additional amenities to the City
      residents.
