                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020



                                        STAFF REPORT
                                          July 13, 2021

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: July 8, 2021

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By:          Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                      Planning Division
                      Community Development Department
                      (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us

Re:     Lone Peak Parkway Office — Site Plan and Plat Amendment Application
        Requests
        Application Nos.: SPR-053-2021 and SUBD-093-2021
        Applicant:        Dan Gould, representing Lone Peak Parkway LLC
        Project Location: Approximately 134 W. 13100 South
        Current Zoning: DC (Destination Commercial) Zone
        Acreage:          Approximately 1.1 acres (approximately 49,916 square feet)
        Request:          Request for approval of a site plan for the construction of a new
                          office building and a plat amendment to combine parcels and
                          relocate a public utility easement.



SUMMARY and BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval of site plan and plat amendment applications for
approximately 1.1 acres located on the east side of Lone Peak Parkway, at approximately
134 W. 13100 South (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned DC. The applicant is
requesting that a site plan be approved to allow for the development of a new office
building and a plat amendment to combine parcels and relocate the public utility
easement. The site is currently undeveloped.



Lone Peak Parkway Office                                  Apps. # SPR-053-2021 and SUBD-093-2021
Site Plan Review and Plat Amendment            1
The property has been vacant for many years with residential zoning. As the properties
around the home began to develop, the property became less and less desirable as a
residential property. In 2002 the property was subdivided for commercial use and then
further subdivided through a plat amendment in 2005 and again in 2009. The area to the
west of the subdivision eventually became the right-of-way for Lone Peak Parkway.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Destination
Commercial land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the DC zoning classification (Exhibit D). Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020(C)(9) states: The purpose of the DC zone is to
“provide an area that is uniquely regional in nature, with lodging, food establishments,
retail, office, service uses, and entertainment as the only allowed uses.” The DC zoning
designation is identified by the General Plan as a preferred zoning classification for the
Destination Commercial land use designation. The property is bordered on the east and
west (across Lone Peak Parkway) by DC zoning. To the north is M1 (Light Manufacturing)




Lone Peak Parkway Office                             Apps. # SPR-053-2021 and SUBD-093-2021
Site Plan Review and Plat Amendment          2
zoning. The CSD-SWF (Southwestern Furniture) zone is located to the south across 13100
South.

Site Plan Layout. The subject site is located on the north side of 13100 South (Exhibit E).
The site is currently vacant at this time. This request is to build an office building on the
western side of the property at the corner of 13100 South and Lone Peak Parkway.
Associated parking will be located on the north and west of the site. One new driveway will
be constructed along 13100 South to access the site. A new trash enclosure and
landscaping will be included as part of the project. The proposed building complies with all
setbacks and height of the DC zoning district.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The buildings on the site will cover approximately 8,474
square feet of the 1.1 acre site (Exhibit F). This provides a lot coverage of approximately
17.7% for the site. The maximum lot coverage allowed by the zone is 60%. The site also
contains approximately 12,374 square feet of landscaping on the property, providing a site
landscaping calculation of approximately 25.8% which exceeds the code minimum of 20%.
The proposed amount of landscaping for the parking lot area is approximately 7% and
meets the minimum requirement of 7%. This site meets the minimum standard.

Parking. According to DCMC Table 9-25-1, there shall be a minimum of four parking spaces
for every 1,000 square feet of office uses. The parking for the building will be located
between to the east of the proposed building. The total required parking for a building
with approximately 22,396 is 91 parking stalls. The applicant has provided a total of 81
parking stalls and this falls with the natural deviation of 10% allowed by the DCMC. The
site meets the minimum standards for parking requirements.

Section 9-25-080(H)(2)(a) requires that parking row dividing landscaping is included with
each plan unless the Planning Commission finds that it is not feasible and parking tree
diamonds can then be authorized. The applicant is requesting the deviation for tree
diamonds for one row of parking on the plan due to physical constraints of the site. The
Planning Commission must find that:

    (1) The site requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking; or
    (2) The site would requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking in
        order to implement such landscaping; and
    (3) Constraints of the site would necessitate the elimination of required parking spaces
        or reduction of site boundary landscaping buffers in order to facilitate such
        landscaping.

The applicant has provided written justification for the one parking tree diamond (Exhibit
H).




Lone Peak Parkway Office                              Apps. # SPR-053-2021 and SUBD-093-2021
Site Plan Review and Plat Amendment           3
Architecture. The design is a three story building with varied wall planes and large glass
windows on each level (Exhibit G). The DC zone only allows a maximum height of 45 feet.
The height is just under that and is 44’6” tall. The building is proposed to have its primary
material as precast concrete panels, aluminum composite metal panels, and prefinished
aluminum plank siding. The building has a minimum of three colors as required by the
code. Each exterior elevation meets the minimum requirement of 75% for primary
materials and is as follows:

        North – 95.5%                 South – 77.8%
        East – 88.3%                  West – 82.1%

Lighting. The site plan calls for the installation of parking lot light poles and wall mounted
lights on the new building. The applicant has provided a spec sheet for the proposed
lighting fixture and it is proposed to be a full cutoff fixture, meaning all light will be directed
downwards. The proposed parking lot light poles are 20 feet tall and meet the minimum
setbacks from all property lines. The applicant has provided photometric plans that show
the proposed lighting meets the illumination standards in both Tables 9-20-1 and 9-20-2.

Fencing. The property located to the north was recently zoned to M1 and there is no need
for a buffer or fencing with this property. However, the plans do indicate that a six foot tall
fence will be installed along the north and east property lines in the future. Six foot tall
fences do not require any special approvals and that fence will be reviewed
administratively in the future.

Subdivision Plat. The applicant is requesting a plat amendment application for two reasons
(Exhibit I). First, the property is part of an subdivision and the request is to combine the
boundaries of three existing lots to create one lot. Second, the southwest corner of the
project was a former cul-de-sac bulb that was vacated when Lone Peak Parkway was
planned and built. However, when the street was vacated, the utility easements were not
vacated and are still in effect. This plat amendment will relocate and remove those utility
easements from the plat.

Criteria For Approval.
Site Plan
The criteria for review and potential approval of a site plan request is found in Section 9-5-
090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

    E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site
       plan:
       1.    The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development
             plan is approved.




Lone Peak Parkway Office                                  Apps. # SPR-053-2021 and SUBD-093-2021
Site Plan Review and Plat Amendment                   4
        2.       A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title,
                 including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
                 parking, landscaping, and building materials.
        3.       The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
                 the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is
                 located.
        4.       The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the
                 subject development, as required by engineering standards and
                 specifications.
        5.       The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards
                 found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm
                 water drainage, and utilities concerns.

Plat Amendment:
The grounds for review and potential approval of a subdivision plat amendment request is
found in Section 17-9-040 of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:

        The Planning Commission may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by
        signing an amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the Land Use
        Authority finds that there is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no
        public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the site plan and plat amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the site plan and plat amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions has completed their review of the site plan and plat amendment
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geotechnical, in working with the
Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, has completed their review of the site plan
and plat amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.




Lone Peak Parkway Office                                  Apps. # SPR-053-2021 and SUBD-093-2021
Site Plan Review and Plat Amendment               5
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the site plan and
plat amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the site plan and plat
amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

Site Plan
1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
         Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
         and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
2.       Any outstanding Engineering and Public Work comments will need to be addressed
         before issuance of a Land Disturbance Permit.
3.       That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
         development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
4.       The trail easement shall be vacated by the City Council and will need to be done
         prior to the recordation of the mylar. In the event the easement is not vacated, an
         updated mylar will be required.
5.       Failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year of approval of any site
         plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the expiration of the one-year
         period, an applicant may submit a written request with the community development
         department for a site plan extension of up to six months. Approval of this extension
         may only be granted by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission,
         whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, provided the applicant
         can meet the requirements for extension under Section 9-5-030 and demonstrate
         substantial action toward obtaining a land disturbance permit.




Lone Peak Parkway Office                              Apps. # SPR-053-2021 and SUBD-093-2021
Site Plan Review and Plat Amendment            6
The findings for approval are as follows:

1.        The entire site has been developed as a phased development.
2.        The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
          not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
          building materials.
3.        The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
          general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.        The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
          development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.        The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
          Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and
          utilities concerns.

Deviation Requests.
The applicant has stated the deviation request will comply with DCMC Section 9-22-
080(H)(2)(a).

The findings for approval are as follows:

1.        The site requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking; or
2.        The site would requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking in
          order to implement such landscaping; and
3.        Constraints of the site would necessitate the elimination of required parking spaces
          or reduction of site boundary landscaping buffers in order to facilitate such
          landscaping.

The finding for denial is as follows:

1.        The applicant has not demonstrated to the Planning Commission that they comply
          with the deviation the standards set in the DCMC Section 9-25-080(H)(2)(a).

Subdivision Plat Amendment
The finding for approval is as follows:

     1.      There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no Public Street, right-
             of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.



MODEL MOTIONS
Deviation Request for DCMC Section 9-25-080(H)(2)(a)
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation for parking
diamonds, as requested by Dan Gould, representing Lone Peak Parkway LLC, application


Lone Peak Parkway Office                                  Apps. # SPR-053-2021 and SUBD-093-2021
Site Plan Review and Plat Amendment               7
SPR-053-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated July 13, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the deviation for parking
diamonds, as requested by Dan Gould, representing Lone Peak Parkway LLC, application
SPR-053-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated July 13, 2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation for parking diamonds, as
requested by Dan Gould, representing Lone Peak Parkway LLC, application SPR-053-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 13,
2021.

Site Plan
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan request, as requested
by Dan Gould, representing Lone Peak Parkway LLC, application SPR-053-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 13, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the site plan request, as
requested by Dan Gould, representing Lone Peak Parkway LLC, application SPR-053-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 13,
2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1.       List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the site plan request, as requested by
Dan Gould, representing Lone Peak Parkway LLC, application SPR-053-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 13, 2021.

Plat Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Plat Amendment, as requested
by Dan Gould, representing Lone Peak Parkway LLC, for application SUBD-093-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 13, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Plat Amendment, as
requested by Dan Gould, representing Lone Peak Parkway LLC, for application SUBD-093-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
July 13, 2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1.       List any additional findings and conditions . . .



Lone Peak Parkway Office                                    Apps. # SPR-053-2021 and SUBD-093-2021
Site Plan Review and Plat Amendment               8
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
       construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division
       and is required prior to Building Permit issuance.
2.     Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained
       through the Engineering Division.
3.     Third party approval is required of the geotechnical report prior to site plan
       approval, per DCMC 9-5-090(D)(1)(g).
4.     Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement are now required for every private
       storm drainage system, per DCMC 16-2-170. Submission of the maintenance plan is
       now required prior to site approval. The maintenance agreement is a condition of
       approval; it is required to be recorded and returned to the city prior to issuance of
       the Land Disturbance Permit for construction of the site.
5.     The developer is to provide a drainage report including detention, orifice, and pipe
       sizing calculations per DCMC 9-5-090(D)(1)(d)(2)(G). The drainage report is to meet
       the requirement of the City of Draper Drainage Design Criteria available online.
       Consider implementing LID (low-impact development) BMP’s in the overall drainage
       design.
6.     Drawings are to be stamped and signed by a P.E. registered in Utah per Draper City
       Municipal Code (DCMC) 9-5-090(D)(1)(d).
7.     Drawings shall include construction details.
8.     Remove all references to “PRELIMINARY,” “NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION,” “DRAFT,” “FOR
       REVIEW ONLY,” etc.
9.     Existing site has several lot lines and PUE easement in conflict with the building. We
       recommend a plat amendment to relocate the PUE to abut the public ROW on
       13100 South and Lone Peak Parkway. Public trail and PU&DE along the north
       boundary could be modified at the same time.
10.    Verify property boundary at corner of 13100 South and Lone Peak Parkway. Public
       sidewalk is required to be within the public right-of-way.
11.    Check detail sheet references on C200 – C600 is Erosion Control Plan.
12.   Per the general permit requirements for Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
      Systems (MS4s), UPDES permit part 4.2.5.3.4 requires all development to retain
      onsite runoff from initial storm events. In Draper City, this requirement is for all
      storms to 0.43 inches in depth.
13.   Address runoff water quality. Examples of BMP include snout, oil/water separator,
      or bioswale.
14.   All roof drains shall discharge onto site and into private SD system.
15.   Provide additional spot elevations and information on the basin at the northeast
      corner of site.
16.   Add additional spot elevations on existing sidewalk to verify grading between
      sidewalk and structure.
17.   15-inch RCP required in public right-of-way. From last onsite structure to existing
      inlet, the SD is required to be RCP.
18    Orifice is not identified on plan. Show location and provide construction detail.
19.   Geotechnical report identifies groundwater at between 4 to 5.5 feet. Underground
      storage is 5+ feet underground. Verify groundwater cannot infiltrate retention /
      detention basin volume. Maintain 3 feet separation. With groundwater proximity
      close to the surface, identify how the retained runoff will be handled.
20.   Add requirement to grading plan to meet the recommendations of the geotechnical
      report or add the requirements to the grading plan.
21.   Add fire flow requirement to utility plan per DCMC 9-5-090(D)(1)(d)(3)(C). This is the
      fire flow required for the proposed building based on the structure material type
      and occupancy.
22.   Commercial drive-approach required, including thickening of the sidewalk at site
      entrance. See Draper City Standard Detail ST-07/08.
23.   Dimension utility cuts per Draper City Standard Detail ST-19 and ST-21.
24.   6-inch fire line is required to be C900 DR14 Class 305 or ductile iron class 52.
25.   Minimum of 20 feet of fire line to hydrant is required to be ductile iron.
26.   Use two 45-degree bends rather than one 90-degree bend to reduce thrust block
      size in the parking area.
27.   Verify Draper City thrust block standard is adequately sized for onsite soil material.
      Detail is based on 2,000 pounds bearing capacity.
28.   Abandon existing water stub that is not used.
29.   Owner’s dedication is found at DCMC 17-4-030(N)(2).
30.   Rename PUEs to public utility and drainage easements (PU&DE) per DCMC 17-5-
      050(G).
31.   Plat closure and bearing information is being verified per DCMC 17-4-030(G). Any
      comments will be forwarded.
32.   Add addresses to the lot(s) and parcel(s), DCMC 17-4-030(J).
33.   PUEs cannot be vacated, but are to be relocated. Any vacation of PUEs, per state
      law, requires city council approval. The planning commission approves plat
      amendments.
34.   We are determining if the trail easement can be vacated through this process.
35.    The drainage easement along the northern boundary is to remain. The existing
       adjacent drainage facility will remain in use.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.
No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
1.     Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
       26 feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of 13 feet, 6 inches
       shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the
       imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all
       weather driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of 28
       feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to
       building permits being issued.
2.     Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler
       shop drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
       don.buckley@draper.ut.us. A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut
       sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
       or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. There needs to be a hydrant within 100 feet
       of the FDC. FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION
       PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER
       FIRE DEPARTMENT.
3.     Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no designated
       fire riser room with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be
       either a wall mounted P.I.V (OS&Y) or a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance
       of 40 feet from the building with a tamper switch.
4.     Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to
       be sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us.
       A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery
       calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm
       Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3RD PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE
       SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
5.     Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to
       exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior
       access to the fire sprinkler riser room, at a height of 5 feet to the top of the box.
       Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor. See attached
       information form. The current gate will need to have a Knoxbox installed for fire
       access.
6.     2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
       type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
       conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
       available for use and placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or not the
       extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than five
      feet above the floor.
7.    Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
      address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property.
      These numbers shall contrast with their background.

Legal Review.
1.    The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             05-21-2021




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ○
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEW 6' FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX. WIRE FENCE                                                                                                                                (AS SELECTED BY OWNER)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10.0' PUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ○                            ○            ○                  ○   ○            ○
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX. EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                         ○                 ○                  ○                     ○                    ○                       ○                    ○                             ○                    ○                        ○                           ○                                 ○                               ○                 ○                   ○                 ○

                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX. DITCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EX. DITCH
                                                                                                           MONUMENT SIGN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FUTURE GENERATOR TO BE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSTALLED ON CONCRETE PAD
                                                                                                                                                                             13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0        10          20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ◻
                                                                                                                                                                        PL                                                                                                                                                                              07 ◻          N89°54'12"W                           333.53'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REMARKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PL                                                   PL                                                          PL                                                          PL                                                                          PL                                                PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            07◻                                                      PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER CITY REVIEW RESPONSE
                                                                                                                                                     ◻                       ◻                  ◻
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ◻                     ◻                    ◻                          ◻                ◻                              ◻                                             ◻                                  ◻                                ◻                         ◻                  ◻                     ◻                                                                                                                         SCALE = 1":20'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    02                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FIRE TURNING RADIUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0'
                                                                                                           COMPACT PARKING STALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ◻
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     02                                                                                    9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CURVE TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEW FIRE HYDRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DUMPSTER PAD
                                                                                                                                              .0'   8.5
                                                                                                                                                         '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6'                                                                    TO HAVE 6' MASONRY
                                                                                                                                           1 0                                                                                                                                                                02                                                                                                                                                                                                         7.                                                                                                               CURVE # LENGTH RADIUS                   DELTA        BEARING      CHORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WALLS AND SOLID




                                                                                                                                                    PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ◻
                                                                                                                                                    PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                      01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 METAL FENCE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             24.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              04




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R 1 .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           03




                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0'
                                                                                                                                            UE




                                                                                                                                                    N3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (SEE ARCH PLANS FOR                         C1     71.60          175.04        23°26'10" S77°33'25"W      71.10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL
                                                                                                                                                     3°
                                                                                                                                           P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     04




                                                                                                                                                                                                R4
                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHARGING STATION




                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  01
                                                                                                                                   6.0




                                                                                                                                                          6'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DETAILS)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .0'




                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  07




                                                                                                                                                              "W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ◻
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RIDGE            RIDGE            RIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2 8                                                                                                                                                                                                               C2     15.55          10.00         89°05'42" S69°38'06"E      14.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                   80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R3                                                                      7.0' PUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                      .6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R2.0'                                                                       .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                 01




                                                                                                                                                                        2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IJR
                                                                                                                                                                                                              13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          09                                                                   18.0'                                                                                             10.0'                                       C3     130.12         812.18         9°10'46"    N29°20'51"W   129.98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.0'                                                                         G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ◻
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01
                                                                                                                                  NEW TRANSFORMER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                170.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R2                                                                                                                                                                                 I                        C4     71.60          175.04        23°26'10" S77°48'24"W      71.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0'                                                                                                                                                                      BU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LONE PEAK PARKWAY LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        01                                                                                                                    10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DESIGNED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHARGING STATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (175.22')
                                                                                                                                                                                                      .2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                    13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PL◻

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S0°10'24"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  134 WEST 13100 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 05                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C5     15.55          10.00         89°05'42" S69°23'07"E      14.03




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IJR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAPER, CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18.0'
                                                                                                                                             .8'                                                                                                                                             101.3'
                                                                                                                                          9 9                     .3'                                                                                                                                                                                   5.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NEW 6' FENCE



                                                                                                                                                                                                         PL
                                                                                                                                                             34                                                                                                             NEW BUILDING                                                                                                                                             26.0'                                                        01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ◻
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          08                                                                             (AS SELECTED BY OWNER)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     09                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4/1/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8,561.3 SQ FT                                                                                                                  02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LINE TABLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    82.2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          C3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHARGING STATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '                                    FIRE DEPARTMENT                                                                                           18.0'                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DATE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.3                                                                                                                                                                                                3.0                                                                                    04                                                                                                                      LINE #               LENGTH       DIRECTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R                                                                                                                                          02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ◻
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONNECTION (FDC)                                                        5.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SEE ARCH. PLANS                                                                                                                                           R5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             05                                                                               .5                                                                      R3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '                                                                  .0' 01                                                                                                                          L1                 17.00       S89°16'30W
                                                                                                                                                              LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PEDESTRIAN ACCESS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIDGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1:20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           04                                             01
                                                                                                                                                                    NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL                                             FROM STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ◻




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L2                 1.31        N25°06'31"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX SIGN                                                                                                                                                                                   02                           08                                                                                                        COMPACT PARKING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17.4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R3.
                                                                                                                                                                             PE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RID

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WALL CONSULTANT GROUP
                                                                                                                                                                                                    (TO BE RELOCATED)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9980 SOUTH 300 WEST, SUITE 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GE
                                                                                                                                                                              AK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RID

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L3                 17.00       S89°31'29"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHONE: 801-456-3847
                                                                                                                                                                                  PA




                                                                                                               KEYNOTES:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMPACT PARKING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SANDY, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12                                          01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L4                 1.31        N24°51'32"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     28.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                      RK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL                                               PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL                                                                   L1                                                                                                     N89°52'00"W           124.17'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.0' PUE
                                                                                                30" REVERSE CURB AND GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (L3)
                                                                                                                                                                                       WA




                                                                                           01   (SEE DETAIL 2 SHEET C700)                                                                                                                                                                                               (C4)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (L4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     )
                                                                                                                                                                                               Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C2                                                                                                                                            06                                                                              MONUMENT SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                           02
                                                                                                30" COLLECTION CURB AND GUTTER                                                                                                                               (C5)                                             10.0'
                                                                                                (SEE DETAIL 1 SHEET C700)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13100 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            59.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      54.42'                                                                                                                          124.17'
                                                                                                BOLLARD                                                                                                                                                  FOUND MONUMENT IN RING                                                                                                                                                                                        BASIS OF BEARING: N 89°52'00" W                        622.33'
May 21, 2021 - 3:32pm




                                                                                           03   (SEE DETAIL 4 SHEET C700)                                                                                                                                AND     LID    AT    THE                                                                                                      EX FIRE HYDRANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INTERSECTION   OF   13100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FOUND MONUMENT IN RING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOUTH STREET AS SHOWN
                                                                                                ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AND LID AT THE CENTERLINE
                                                                                           04   (SEE DETAIL 3 SHEET C700)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ON TK ACRES AMENDED                                     CABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF 13100 SOUTH STREET AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHOWN    ON    TK  ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AMENDED

                                                                                                SIDEWALK
                                                                                           05   (SEE DETAIL 5 SHEET C700)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAND USE TABLE
File Path:G:\Shared drives\Projects\2021 Projects\21-126 Gould\Civil\Civil\Site\Site.dwg




                                                                                           06   DRIVE APPROACH PER DRAPER CITY STD DWG ST-07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPERTY ZONE: DESTINATION COMMERCIAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LONE PEAK PARKWAY OFFICES
                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL GROSS ACREAGE                                   47,991.0 SQ FT
                                                                                           07   CURB CUT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           134 WEST 13100 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100%
                                                                                                                                                                                               (ACRES)                                               (1.10 ACRES)

                                                                                                                                                                                               BUILDING FOOTPRINT                                    8,474.75 SQ FT                               17.7%
                                                                                           08   CURB TRANSITION
                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL BUILDING FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22,396 SQ FT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21-126
                                                                                                                                                                                               AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SITE PLAN
                                                                                           09   WHEELSTOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                               LANDSCAPING                                           12,374.60 SQ FT                                  25.8%
                                                                                                ADA SIGN
                                                                                           10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE
                                                                                                (SEE DETAIL 7 SHEET C700)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOCATION AND/OR ELEVATION OF EXISTING UTILITIES AS
                                                                                                                                                                                               HARDSCAPING                                           27,141.70 SQ FT                                  56.5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHOWN ON THESE PLANS IS BASED ON RECORDS OF THE
                                                                                           11   SAWCUT AND REPAIR PER DRAPER CITY STD DWG ST-19 & ST-21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES AND, WHERE POSSIBLE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  90 STALLS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS
                                                                                                                                                                                               REQUIRED PARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NOT TO BE RELIED ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +/- 10% OF REQ' STALLS = 81 STALLS
                                                                                           12   SIDEWALK REPAIR PER DRAPER CITY STD DWG ST-12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE LOCAL UTILITY LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO
                                                                                                                                                                                               ACTUAL PARKING                                                                                                 81 STALLS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REQUEST EXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE UTILITIES. IT
                                                                                           13   FUTURE CAR CHARGING STATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOTE:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RELOCATE ALL EXISTING UTILITIES WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OWNER, DEVELOPER, AND/OR THE CONTRACTOR ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY DAMAGE TO THE DRAPER
                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL ADA PARKING                                                                                               4 STALLS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS. IF A
                                                                                                BIKE RACK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY THAT MAY BE DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CAUSED BY THE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONFLICT IS IDENTIFIED, THE ENGINEER OF RECORD SHOULD
                                                                                           14   (SEE DETAIL 6 ON SHEET C700)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BE CONTACTED IMMEDIATELY, PRIOR TO ANY FURTHER WORK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OUTDOOR AMENITIES INCLUDE OUTDOOR BENCH AND WILL BE LOCATED UNDERNEATH THE BUILDING                                                                                                    THE CONTRACTOR IS TO CALL BLUE                                                        BEING DONE RELATED TO THE ISSUE. CONTRACTOR IS TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BEGIN CONSTRUCTION AT LOW SIDE OF ALL GRAVITY LINES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OVERHANG NEAR THE BUILDING ENTRANCE. SEE THE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS                                                                                                                       STAKES PRIOR TO ANY CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET NO.                                                                        C200
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLANT LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLANT SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EVERGREEN TREES       CODE         QTY     BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT       CAL        SIZE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jc's              Jc's         2       Juniperus chinensis `Spartan`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Spartan Juniper
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B&B                   5`-6`



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pn'a                      Pn'a         4       Pinus nigra `Arnold Sentinel`                      B&B                   5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Arnold Sentinel Austrian Pine


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DECIDUOUS TREES       CODE         QTY     BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT       CAL        SIZE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ax'u             Ax'u         3       Acer truncatum x platanoides `JFS-KW187` TM        B&B        2"Cal
       44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Urban Sunset Maple
          25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gb'p                     Gb'p         5       Ginkgo biloba `Princeton Sentry`                   B&B        2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Princeton Sentry Gingko


                                                                                                                                                               4423
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gt's            Gt's         7       Gleditsia triacanthos `Skycole`                    B&B        2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Skyline Honey Locust
                                                                                          4425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                       4424                                                                                                                                                                                                                  442

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2)Zs'm                                                             (2)Gt's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1)Ax'u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Qr'a                     Qr'a         2       Quercus robur x alba `JFS-KW1QX` TM                B&B        2"Cal
                                                                                                                               4423   (3)Jc'd                         4424
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (3)Jc'd                                                                     (3)Jc'd                                                                                                                                                                                            Street Spire Oak
                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4424

                                                    (3)Jc'd
                                                                                                                                                                       4422                                                                                                                                                                                                         4423                   (2)Zs'm
                               (5)Ra'a                                                                                        4422                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4422
                                                                                                 4423                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4422                                                                                                                                                         Up'l            Up'l         2       Ulmus parvifolia `Emer II`                         B&B        2"Cal
                                           Jc'd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Allee Lacebark Elm
                                                                                                                                                               Jc'd                                                                                                                                                 Jc'd
                                                                                                                                              4424
                  Ra'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jc'd
                   Ra'a                              Zs'mJc'd
                                                                 FUTURE                   FUTURE            FUTURE                            FUTURE                         FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                               4424                 FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Zs'm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FUTURE                                                                                                                                4425                           Ca'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ca'k                                            Zs'm
                                           Jc'd                                                     Gt's                                              Jc'd Gt'sJc'd                                                                                                                 Zs'm                  Jc'd   Gt's   Jc'd                              Gt's                    Jc'd      Zs'm Jc'dCa'k
                     Ra'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Zs'm                      Zs'm         8       Zelkova serrata `Musashino`                        B&B        2"Cal
                       Ra'a              (1)Po'f                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ax'u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Musashino Zelkova
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FUTURE GEN.
                        Ra'a                    (3)Rt'a                                                                                                                                                                                             Ca'k
                               Po'f                                   (1)Zs'm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (3)Ca'k                 Jc's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ca'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LP                                                                                                                                                                  Is
                                                (3)Am'm                                                                                                                 15                                                                                                                                                        14                                                                                Is           Pn'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Ca'k                                                                                  DECIDUOUS SHRUBS      CODE         QTY     BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)Jc's               Is
                                  Rt'a            (1)Po'f                     4423                                                                                                                                           (2)Ca'k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Aa'o              Aa'o         10      Amelanchier alnifolia `Obelisk` TM                 5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Y D                                                                                                                                                                              Is               Ca'k                                                                                                                                                Standing Ovation Serviceberry




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              442
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H
                   Gt's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Is Jc's




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                         Po'f                                                                                                                                                                              104 SQ FT                                                                                                                                                              (3)ls                                                 Ca'k (3)Jc'd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ca'k
                                                                                                                                                                                       (2)Gt's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PENISULA                                                                                                                                                               (1)Pn'a                                                Jc'd                                                                                                                          Am'm         35      Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM165` TM                 5 gal
                                        Ra'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)ls                                                                                                                                                                                  Low Scape Mound Chokeberry




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4424
                                          Ra'a                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                        442
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (3)Ca'k                                                                                                                                                                  Qr'a
                                                                        (6)Ra'a
                                           Ra'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1)Jc's
                                             Ra'a                                (1)Po'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (2)Pf'g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  205 SQ FT                            (4)Ca'k                                                                        Jc'd                                                                                                           Bt'l              Bt'l         10      Berberis thunbergii `BailErin` TM                  5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Limoncello Barberry
                                               Ra'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)Jc'd                                                 ISLAND
                                                                                             (1)Rt'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jc'd
                                                Ra'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ca'k Ca'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ca'k                Jc'd
                                                    Po'f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (3)Jc'd               Ca'k                                                                                                                                                                                                              Po'f              Po'f         11      Physocarpus opulifolius `UMNHarpell` Fireside TM   5 gal
                                      Gt's                                           LP          (1)Pn'a                                                                       15                                                                                                                 Ca'k                                         Jc'dEVC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Fireside Ninebark
                                                                                                     (2)Po'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ca'k                                                                                                                                                               IRR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)Aa'o                                                   Pf'g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            44
                                                                                                                                        (2)Aa'o                                        (33)Fs'b                           (3)Bm'b                                                                                                           Jc'd
                                                                                T                        (2)Ra'a
                                                                                                                                          (6)Bm'b                                                                                                                                                   Up'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jc'd  Ca'k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pf'g              Pf'g         5       Potentilla fruticosa `Gold Drop`                   5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (5)Pv's                                      Pf'g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Gold Drop Potentilla
                               (3)Am'm                                    Rt'a       FUTURE             FUTURE
                                                                                                                Aa'o      Aa'o         FUTURE                         FUTURE                  FUTURE                       EVCAa'o                                                                   Jc'd
                                                                                              Po'f Ra'a          Bm'bBm'b
                                                                                                                       Bm'b Bm'b
                                                                                                                               Bm'b
                                                                                                                                 Bm'b                                                                    Bm'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bm'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bm'b                                                                                 FUTURE
                                                                                                      Ra'a Po'f
                                                                                      Pn'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (8)Fs'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rt'a             Rt'a         3       Rhus trilobata `Autumn Amber`                      5 gal
                                                                                           Po'f                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1)Up'l            25 SQ FT 6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Autumn Amber Sumac
               LO




                                                                                            Ra'a (1)Po'f                                                                                                                                                                                                         171 SQ FT            ISLAND                Gb'p                                                                12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENTRY                                           ISLAND                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                               Gt's                          Ra'a       (4)Ra'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ra'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -4         +0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1)Jc'd                                                                 6                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ra'a         24      Ribes alpinum `Aureum`                             5 gal
                 NE




                                                                                                Ra'a      (1)Po'f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dwarf Golden Alpine Currant
                                                                                                 Ra'a      (7)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                   Jc'd                                                                              (1)Gb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BL4-1   (4)Bm'b
                    PE




                                                                                                   Po'f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EVERGREEN SHRUBS      CODE         QTY     BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Aa'o
                                                                                                                 CT & METER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BALCONY
                                         (3)Gt's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bm'b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bm'b              Bm'b         25      Buxus microphylla `Bulthouse` TM                   5 gal
                       AK




                                                                                                                                                               4424                                                                                                                 Bm'b                                (2)Jc'd                                                                                                                                      (3)Jc'd                                                                                                                                Sprinter Boxwood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bm'b      (2)Aa'o9                                                                                                                                                       Jc'd
                                             (5)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bm'b




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ax'u EVC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ca'k Ca'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ca'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BL4-1                                               Jc'd                        Ax'uJc'd                                                                                Jc'd                                                                                                      Is              Is           6       Ilex crenata `Sky Pencil`                          5 gal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              25
                               PA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Aa'o                                                                                                     44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25                        (2)Qr'a                                                                                                                                                                           Sky Pencil Japanese Holly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FFE =                                                         Bm'b      (4)Bm'b                                                                                                                                                 Jc'd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             185 SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4425
                                                                                          Gb'p                                                                                                                      4427.38                                                         Bm'b
                                 RK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bm'b                                       ISLAND                                                                            (6)Bt'l                                                                                                                                             Jc'd              Jc'd         43      Juniperus chinensis `Daub`s Frosted`               5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                    FUTURE     FUTURE      DATA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (3)Ca'k          (1)Up'l                                                    Qr'a                                                                                                                                                  Daub`s Frosted Juniper
                                                                                                                                                      (55)Fs'b                                                                                                                      Bm'b
                                                                                                                                                                                    WOMEN       MEN     7'-6" X 9'-7"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (2)Ax'u                                                      (3)Jc'd
                                    WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Aa'o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BL4-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Aa'o     (4)Bm'b                          (3)Ca'k                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GRASSES                CODE         QTY     BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT
                                                                                                                                                                  (1)Po'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (4)Pf'g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bm'b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ca'k              Ca'k         27      Calamagrostis x acutiflora `Karl Foerster`         1 gal
                                      Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1)Pn'a
                                                                       4427




                                                                                      (9)Pv's                                                                           (4)Ra'a                                                                                                     Bm'b                                                Ca'k                                                                       Jc'dJc'd Bt'l Pf'g                                                                                                                                                                       Feather Reed Grass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1)Zs'n       (3)Bt'l Ca'k Ca'k                                                                                                                    (3)Jc'd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (4)Bm'b                                  Bm'b      (3)Aa'o                                                                                                                 Up'l Bt'lBt'l
                                                                                                                                              Po'f                                           (22)Fs'b                    (5)Pv's                                                    Bm'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bt'l                              5                                      Jc'd                                  Jc'd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (2)Aa'o                                       BL4-1                        (3)Ca'k
                                                                                                           Gb'p                                  Ra'a                                                                                                                                                                                  Bt'l Bt'l                           4425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F'sb         118     Festuca x `Siskiyou Blue`                          1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                  (3)Po'f                                                                                                           Aa'o                           (2)Jc'd                                                           (3)Jc'd                        Bt'l Bt'l                           Jc'd                                                                                                                                                Siskiyou Blue Fescue
                                                                                                                                                  Ra'a     (3)Ra'a                                                                                        Aa'o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bm'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bm'bBm'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bm'b Aa'oPn'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jc'dJc'd                                                                  Pf'gBt'l                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                   Ra'a                                                                                                                                          Ca'k                                                                                                                Jc'd                                Jc'd                     (2)Ca'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2)Jc'd
                                                                                           (2)Gb'p                                                                        Po'f                                                                                Jc'dJc'd                         Zs'mCa'k Jc'd                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REFERENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEGEND NOTES SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                     Ra'a            Ra'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pv's         19      Panicum virgatum `Shenandoah`                      1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pf'g                                                                                                       Ca'k
                                                                                                                                                                  Ra'a                                                                                                                           Ca'kJc'd                                                                                                                Jc'd Jc'd                Ca'k                                                                                CABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMM                                                               Shenandoah Switch Grass
                                                                                                 (3)Am'm                                              Po'f     Ra'a
                                                                                                                                                             Po'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jc'dJc'd                                                                                                                                                                      Ca'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SITE MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
                                                          44
                                                            27
                                                                                                                                                                    4Rt'a
                                                                                                                                                                     425                                                                                                           (4)Jc'd                              (1)Pf'g                                        WM                                                                                                                              WM
                                                                                                                                                        Pn'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (8)Am'mWM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1 LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  178 SQ FT                                                        Zs'm                                                           Zs'm                                      4425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SYMBOL          DESCRIPTION                                                                           QTY
                                                                                                        (3)Am'm                                      (1)Pn'a                                                                                        Gb'p                                                          ISLAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WV                                                                                                                                                                                          (2)Zs'm                                                                                                   1-01            SODDED LAWN AREA                                                                      955 sf
                                                                                                                                                                             (1)Rt'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LAWN AREAS SHALL BE SOD. NEW TURF AREAS TO BE SODDED WITH 18%
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gb'p                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WV    WV                                                              "BLUESTAR KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS, 19% "MARQUIS" KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                442
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4424




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D                                             17% "NEWPORT" KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS, 17% "TOUCHDOWN" KENTUCKY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (2)Gb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13100 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4424                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BLUEGRASS, 16% "APM PERENNIAL RYEGRASS, 13% "ACCENT PERENNIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RYEGRASS OR APPROVED EQUAL AT A RATE OF 220 LBS. PER ACRE. FINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEVEL ALL AREAS PRIOR TO LAYING SOD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N 89°52'00" W 622.33'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ALL LAWN AREAS SHALL BE IRRIGATED WITH 100% COVERAGE BY POP-UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SPRAY HEADS AND GEAR-DRIVEN ROTORS. ALL DECIDUOUS AND CONIFER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TREES PLANTED WITHIN SOD AREAS SHALL HAVE A FOUR FOOT(4`)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DIAMETER TREE RING COVERED WITH CHOCOLATE BROWN BARK MULCH,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NO SHREDDED FINES. SUBMIT SAMPLES TO BE APPROVED BY LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ARCHITECT AND OWNER BEFORE INSTALLATION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1-03            3" DESERT ROSE STONE MULCH                                                            9,995 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLANTING AREAS TO RECEIVE MIN. 6" DEPTH OF QUALITY TOPSOIL. IF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOPSOIL IS PRESENT ON SITE, PROVIDE SOIL TEST TO DETERMINE SOIL
                                                                                                                                                        4426




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bt'l                                                                                                                                                   QUALITY FOR PROPOSED PLANTINGS. PROVIDE 3" DEPTH OF STONE MULCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOP DRESSING.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1-05            4"-6" STONE MULCH PLANTING AREAS TO RECEIVE MIN. 6" DEPTH OF                          2,676 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              QUALITY TOPSOIL. IF TOPSOIL IS PRESENT ON SITE, PROVIDE SOIL TEST TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DETERMINE SOIL QUALITY FOR PROPOSED PLANTINGS. PROVIDE 3" DEPTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF STONE MULCH TOP DRESSING.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1 LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SYMBOL          DESCRIPTION                                                                           QTY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1-07            BOULDERS - 18"-3`                                                                     43


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1-08            5.5" DEEP STEEL EDGING - INSTALL PER MANUFACTURER SPECIFICATION.                      1,419 lf

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1 LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SYMBOL          DESCRIPTION                                                                           QTY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1-12            3" GUNSMOKE STONE MULCH                                                               385 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLANTING AREAS TO RECEIVE MIN. 6" DEPTH OF QUALITY TOPSOIL. IF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOPSOIL IS PRESENT ON SITE, PROVIDE SOIL TEST TO DETERMINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APPROPRIATE SOIL QUALITY FOR PROPOSED PLANTINGS.
ISSUE DATE                                  PROJECT NUMBER                                PLAN INFORMATION                                                                                                                           PROJECT INFORMATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DEVELOPER / PROPERTY OWNER / CLIENT                         LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT / PLANNER                                          LICENSE STAMP                           DRAWING INFO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Property Owner:                                                                                                                                                       PM:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JTA
    5/26/2021                               UT21047                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LONE PEAK PARKWAY, LLC                                                                                                                        DRAWN:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KBA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAPER OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ATT: ROSS HOLLIDAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHECKED:
NO.   REVISION                                                         DATE                                      BLUE STAKES OF UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12481 S. FORT ST., SUITE 150                                                                                                                               JMA
                                                                                                                 UTILITY NOTIFICATION CENTER, INC
1      XXXXWATER DETENTION POND
      STORM                                                        XX-XX-XX
                                                                  05/26/2021
                                                                                                                 1-800-662-4111                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER, UTAH 84020                                                                                                                       PLOT DATE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13100 S. & LONE PEAK PKWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5/26/2021
                                                                                                                   www.bluestakes.org
2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Architect / Engineer:
3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WCG ENGINEERS                                                                                     LANDSCAPE PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAPER, UTAH
4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9980 S 300 W STE 200                                                                                           PRELIMINARY PLANS NOT
5
                                                                                               0'          10'                  20'                             40'                                                       80'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SANDY, UT 84070                        3450 N. TRIUMPH BLVD. SUITE 102                                          FOR CONSTRUCTION
6
7
                                                                                                                                     GRAPHIC SCALE: 1" = 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801-456-3847                         LEHI, UTAH 84043 (801) 960-2698
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           www.pkjdesigngroup.com                                                        LP-101
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
        1                                                   2                                           3                                                       4                                             5                                                         6                                                                    7                                         8                                            9                                           10




                                                                                                            F                                                                    E                                    D                                       C                                                                                  B                                 A



                                    HVAC SCREEN WALL:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PREFINISHED METAL CAP FLASHING
A                                   MBCI FW-120-0 PREFINISHED
                                    METAL PANEL SYSTEM, OR EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T.O. PARAPET = 144'-6"
                                    12' x 12' SKYLIGHT W/ INSULATING-LAMINATED GLASS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.O. PARAPET = 143'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D           D           D                                                                                                                                                      WINDOW OPENING = 139'-6"
                                    PREFINISHED ALUMINUM PLANK CLADDING
                                    BASIS OF DESIGN: KNOTWOOD 6" DECKING BOARD                      B                                                                                                                     B           B           B


                                                                                                    B            E         E            E               E                                  E              E               B           B           B                                    E                                         E                         E          E



                                                                                                    C            F         F            F               F                                  F              F               C           C           C                                    F                                         F                         F          F                                                                                                                       427 WEST 11950 SOUTH, SUITE 201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THIRD FLOOR LEVEL = 128'-0"                                                               DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                    COMPOSITE METAL PANEL SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                          D           D           D                                                                                                                                                      COMPOSITE METAL PANEL SYSTEM                                                              C   GOULD+ ARCHITECTS, LLC - 2021


                                                                                                    B                      B            B           B           B           B                                             B           B           B                                                                                                                                                      WINDOW OPENING = 123'-0"
B                                   ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL
                                                                                                    B                      B            B           B           B           B              E              E               B           B           B                                    E                                         E                         E          E



                                                                                                    B                      B            B           B           B           B              F              F               C           C           C                                    F                                         F                         F          F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SECOND FLOOR LEVEL = 114'-0"
                                    ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL                                                                                                                                                  D           D           D
                                                                                                    B                      B            B           B           B           B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B           B           B                                                                                                                                                      WINDOW OPENING = 109'-0"


                                                                                                    B                     C         C       A   A           C   C           B              E              E               B           B           B                                    E                                         E                         E          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL

                                                                                                    C                     C         C       A   A           C   C           C              F              F               C           C           C                                    F                                         F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FINISH FLOOR = 100'-0" (CONC. SLAB)


                                    CONCRETE FOOTING
C


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0'            4'             8'               16'
                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NO.      REVISION DESCRIPTION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1       SITE PLAN REVIEW RESPONSE: 05-21-2021

                                                                                                                                                                     3                           2.6              PREFINISHED METAL           2                                        1.7                         1.4                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CAP FLASHING

                                                                                                                     PREFINISHED METAL CAP FLASHING                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HVAC SCREEN WALL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MBCI FW-120-0 PREFINISHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            METAL PANEL SYSTEM, OR EQUAL
D
                                                                                                        T.O. CANOPY = 144'-6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12' x 12' SKYLIGHT W/ INSULATING-LAMINATED GLASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T.O. PARAPET = 143'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PREFINISHED ALUMINUM PLANK CLADDING
                                                  PREFINISHED ALUMINUM PLANK CLADDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BASIS OF DESIGN: KNOTWOOD 6" DECKING BOARD
                                                  BASIS OF DESIGN: KNOTWOOD 6" DECKING BOARD                                                                                                              B       B           B           B           B                     B
                                                                                                        WINDOW OPENING = 137'-0"

                                                  FOLDING GLASS EXTERIOR DOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                          B       B           B           B           B                     B                                  E           E         E           E
                                                  BASIS OF DESIGN: NANAWALL


                                                  3/4" CLEAR LAMINATED GLASS GUARDRAIL                                                                                                                    C       C           C           C           C                     C                                  F           F             F       F
                                                                                                        THIRD FLOOR LEVEL = 128'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMPOSITE METAL PANEL SYSTEM
                                                  COMPOSITE METAL PANEL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DANIEL E.
                                                                                                        WINDOW OPENING = 123'-0"                                                                                                                                                                               B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GOULD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          No. 6045017-0301
                                                  ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL
E                                                                                                                                                                                 E    E                              E   E                               E                 E                                  B                     E                      E                                                                                                                                             05.21.2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BEYOND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O

                                                                                                                                                                                  F    F                              F   F                               F                 F                                  B                     F                      F
                                                                                                        SECOND FLOOR LEVEL = 114'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT NUMBER                                   21009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BEYOND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NEW OFFICE BUILDING FOR:
                                                                                                        WINDOW OPENING = 109'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KNOX BOX LOCATION - INSTALL 5'-0" MAX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FROM FINISH GRADE TO T.O. BOX

                                                                                                                                                                                  E    E                              E   E                               E                 E                                  B                     E                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BEYOND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LONE PEAK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MAX. 5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F                      F
                                                                                                        FINISH FLOOR = 100'-0" (CONC. SLAB)
                                                                                                                                                                                  F    F                              F   F                               F                 F                                  C                                         BEYOND                                                                                                                          PARKWAY LLC
                                                  CONCRETE FOOTING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CORE AND SHELL

F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        134 WEST 13100 SOUTH              DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0'             4'            8'                   16'
                                                                                                                                                                                EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXTERIOR
        BUILDING MATERIAL                                 PRIMARY MATERIAL /
                                                        OR SECONDARY MATERIAL    NORTH ELEVATION                WEST ELEVATION                  SOUTH ELEVATION                       EAST ELEVATION                                                      TOTALS                                                                                                               GLASS SCHEDULE                                           GLAZING SYSTEM                                            ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BASIS OF DESIGN:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VITRO SOLARBAN 60 (2) OPTIGRAY + CLEAR           MODEL (BASIS OF DESIGN)                   FINISH
    WALL SURFACE AREA (NOT INCLUDING POP-OUTS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                29,729 SF                                                                                                      1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E, INSULATED          ALUMINUM ENTRANCE DOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A                                                                                            ANODIZED - DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TEMPERED GLASS                     KAWNEER W/ 10" ADA BOTTOM RAIL
     ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANELS                PRIMARY MATERIAL               4,315 SF                        2,494 SF                               771 SF                         3,998 SF                                                       14,113 SF                                                                                                           1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSULATED GLASS
      ALUMINUM COMPOSITE METAL PANELS (ACM)               PRIMARY MATERIAL               414 SF                          1,039 SF                               1,016 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                               912 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3,145 SF                                                                                                        1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E,             ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INSULATED TEMPERED GLASS                ( KAWNEER: 1600 SERIES, 2.5" x 6" )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ANODIZED - DARK BRONZE   SITE PLAN APPLICATION
             EXTERIOR GLAZING SYSTEM                    NOT INCLUDED IN CALCS.           1,391 SF                        4,077 SF                               1,466 SF                       2,766 SF                                                           9,837 SF                                                                                                        1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E,                                                                                           APRIL 01, 2021
G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INSULATED SPANDREL GLASS
    PREFINISHED ALUM. PLANK SIDING ("KNOTWOOD")          SECONDARY MATERIAL              224 SF                           770 SF                                510 SF                                                                                            2,634 SF                                                                                                        1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E,
                                                                                                                                                                                               652 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INSULATED GLASS                   ALUMINUM STOREFRONT SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (KAWNEER: TRIFAB 451T 2" x 4.5" )     ANODIZED - DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E, INSULATED


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A200
            TOTAL PRIMARY MATERIAL AREA                                                  4,729 SF                        3,533 SF                               1,787 SF                       4,910 SF                                                       17,258 SF                                                                                           F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TEMPERED GLASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E, INSULATED        ALUMINUM STOREFRONT SYSTEM
     TOTAL WALL SURFACE AREA (MINUS GLAZING)                                             4,953 SF                        4,303 SF                               2,297 SF                       5,562 SF                                                       19,892 SF                                                                                           G                                                                                            ANODIZED - DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TEMPERED GLASS W/ TRANSLUCENT VINYL FILM       (KAWNEER: TRIFAB 451T 2" x 4.5" )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COATED / TINTED, LOW-E, INSULATED         FOLDING GLASS STOREFRONT - ADA
    PERCENT (%) OF FACADE W/ PRIMARY MATERIAL                                             95.5%                           82.1%                                     77.8%                       88.3%                                                              86.8%                                                                                          H                                                                                            ANODIZED - DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TEMPERED GLASS                        (NANA WALL SL70 - o2L1R)
                               1                                                                                            2                                                       3                                                       4                                              5                                        6                                        7                                                                8                                                       9                                            10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C                            D                                E                                                                                   F


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PREFINISHED METAL CAP FLASHING
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HVAC SCREEN WALL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MBCI FW-120-0 PREFINISHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      METAL PANEL SYSTEM, OR EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O. CANOPY = 144'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T.O. PARAPET = 143'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D       D               D                                                                                                              WINDOW OPENING = 139'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PREFINISHED ALUMINUM PLANK CLADDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BASIS OF DESIGN: KNOTWOOD 6" DECKING BOARD                                                                 B       B               B                                                      E                  E                   B


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOLDING GLASS EXTERIOR DOOR
                                                                                                                                                     2"Ø S.S. RAMP HANDRAIL BEYOND                                                                                                                         E           E   E                     B       B               B                                                                                             B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BASIS OF DESIGN: NANAWALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMPOSITE METAL PANEL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                     RECESSED WOOD PLANK BENCH
                                                                                                                                                     CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3/4" CLEAR LAMINATED GLASS GUARDRAIL                                                     427 WEST 11950 SOUTH, SUITE 201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F           F   F                     C       C               C                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THIRD FLOOR LEVEL = 128'-0"                                                                   DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                    1:12 CONCRETE RAMP BEYOND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMPOSITE METAL PANEL SYSTEM                                                                               D       D               D                                                                                                                                                                                                           C   GOULD+ ARCHITECTS, LLC - 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COMPOSITE METAL PANEL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                     2"Ø S.S. RAMP HANDRAIL BEYOND
                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE STAIR NOSING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B       B               B                                                                             134                              WINDOW OPENING = 123'-0"
B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL                                                                                                                                                                                                              ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E           E   E                     B       B               B                                                E               E
              1'-334" 241"




                                                                                                                                                     T.O. CONC./BENCH = 101'-6"
     3'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18" DIMENSIONAL METAL
                                                                                                                   3'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                           6" 6" 1'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LETTER ADDRESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                         2'-6"
                                                                                                                                                     FINISH SLAB = 100'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F           F   F                     C       C               C                                                F               F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SECOND FLOOR LEVEL = 114'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D       D               D




                                                                                                                                                                                                         2'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B       B               B                                                                                                              WINDOW OPENING = 109'-0"
                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE FOOTING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL                                             E   E                     B       B               B                                                E               E
                      5'-0"               7'-9" WOOD PLANK BENCH                                            2'-0"           2'-3"
     RAMP LANDING
       BEYOND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C       C               C                                                F               F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FINISH FLOOR = 100'-0" (CONC. SLAB)




C
    ENTRY BENCH ELEVATION                                                                                                                                     0              2'     4'                           8'                   CONCRETE FOOTING



                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0'       4'      8'                    16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO.      REVISION DESCRIPTION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1       SITE PLAN REVIEW RESPONSE: 05-21-2021

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1                                                             2                           2.3                                            2.7                                                             4

                                                                                                                           2"Ø S.S. HANDRAIL BOTH SIDES OF RAMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HVAC SCREEN WALL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MBCI FW-120-0 PREFINISHED
D                     4'-0"                   4'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   METAL PANEL SYSTEM, OR EQUAL
                                                                                                                           CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE                                                                                T.O. PARAPET = 144'-6"
        RAMP WIDTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. PARAPET = 143'-0"
                                                                         11"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D          D              D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WINDOW OPENING = 137'-0"                                                                                                                                   B          B              B
                                                                         4'-3"




                                                                                                                                      CONCRETE STAIR NOSING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E       E               E   E    E           E                    E                          B          B              B                                E              E           E         E
                                                                 2'-0"
             1:12 RAMP




                                                                                              12'-0" RAMP LENGTH




                                                                                                                                      CONCRETE STAIR NOSING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F       F               F   F    F           F                    F                          C          C              C                                F              F           F         F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THIRD FLOOR LEVEL = 128'-0"
                                                                         7'-9" BENCH LENGTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D          D              D                                                                                               COMPOSITE METAL PANEL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DANIEL E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WINDOW OPENING = 123'-0"                                                                                                                                   B          B              B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GOULD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            No. 6045017-0301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PREFINISHED ALUMINUM PLANK CLADDING
E                                                                                                                          RECESSED WOOD PLANK BENCH                                                                                                                                           E       E               E   E    E           E                    E                          B          B              B                                E              E           E         E                         BASIS OF DESIGN: KNOTWOOD 6" DECKING BOARD                            05.21.2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F       F               F   F    F           F                    F                          C          C              C                                F              F           F         F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SECOND FLOOR LEVEL = 114'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NUMBER                                   21009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D          D              D
                                                                                                                           RECESSED WOOD PLANK VERTICAL FACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NEW OFFICE BUILDING FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WINDOW OPENING = 109'-0"                                                                                                                                   B          B              B


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E   E               E                                         F                              B          B              B                                 E              E          E                                   ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LONE PEAK
                      4'-0"           1'-0"     3'-0"                                                                                              NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FINISH FLOOR = 100'-0" (CONC. SLAB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F       A                      C          C              C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARKWAY LLC
                                              BENCH
                                              DEPTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONCRETE FOOTING                                            CORE AND SHELL

F
                             BENCH PLAN                                                                                               0       2'      4'                     8'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0'            4'        8'              16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          134 WEST 13100 SOUTH              DRAPER, UTAH

                                                                                                                                              SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXTERIOR
                               BUILDING MATERIAL                                                                      PRIMARY MATERIAL /
                                                                                                                    OR SECONDARY MATERIAL           NORTH ELEVATION                         WEST ELEVATION                       SOUTH ELEVATION                 EAST ELEVATION                                                TOTALS                                                                                                                   GLASS SCHEDULE                                                    GLAZING SYSTEM                                            ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BASIS OF DESIGN:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VITRO SOLARBAN 60 (2) OPTIGRAY + CLEAR                       MODEL (BASIS OF DESIGN)                  FINISH
                     WALL SURFACE AREA (NOT INCLUDING POP-OUTS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 29,729 SF                                                                                                              1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E, INSULATED                  ALUMINUM ENTRANCE DOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A                                                                                                          ANODIZED - DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TEMPERED GLASS                             KAWNEER W/ 10" ADA BOTTOM RAIL
                             ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE PANELS                                                         PRIMARY MATERIAL                       4,315 SF                                            2,494 SF              771 SF                        3,998 SF                                              14,113 SF                                                                                                                        1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSULATED GLASS
                             ALUMINUM COMPOSITE METAL PANELS (ACM)                                                         PRIMARY MATERIAL                       414 SF                                          1,039 SF                  1,016 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           912 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3,145 SF                                                                                                                      1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E,                   ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INSULATED TEMPERED GLASS                      ( KAWNEER: 1600 SERIES, 2.5" x 6" )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANODIZED - DARK BRONZE   SITE PLAN APPLICATION
                                    EXTERIOR GLAZING SYSTEM                                                          NOT INCLUDED IN CALCS.                       1,391 SF                                            4,077 SF              1,466 SF                      2,766 SF                                              9,837 SF                                                                                                                          1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E,                                                                                             APRIL 01, 2021
G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INSULATED SPANDREL GLASS
                      PREFINISHED ALUM. PLANK SIDING ("KNOTWOOD")                                                      SECONDARY MATERIAL                         224 SF                                              770 SF                510 SF                                                                              2,634 SF                                                                                                                         1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           652 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSULATED GLASS                       ALUMINUM STOREFRONT SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (KAWNEER: TRIFAB 451T 2" x 4.5" )    ANODIZED - DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E, INSULATED


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A201
                                   TOTAL PRIMARY MATERIAL AREA                                                                                                    4,729 SF                                            3,533 SF              1,787 SF                      4,910 SF                                              17,258 SF                                                                                             F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TEMPERED GLASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1" COATED / TINTED, LOW-E, INSULATED                       ALUMINUM STOREFRONT SYSTEM
                             TOTAL WALL SURFACE AREA (MINUS GLAZING)                                                                                              4,953 SF                                            4,303 SF              2,297 SF                      5,562 SF                                              19,892 SF                                                                                             G                                                                                                          ANODIZED - DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TEMPERED GLASS W/ TRANSLUCENT VINYL FILM                      (KAWNEER: TRIFAB 451T 2" x 4.5" )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COATED / TINTED, LOW-E, INSULATED                 FOLDING GLASS STOREFRONT - ADA
                        PERCENT (%) OF FACADE W/ PRIMARY MATERIAL                                                                                                   95.5%                                              82.1%                 77.8%                         88.3%                                                 86.8%                                                                                                H                                                                                                          ANODIZED - DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TEMPERED GLASS                                (NANA WALL SL70 - o2L1R)
    1   2   3          4         5      6   7   8           9         10




A




                                                                                   427 WEST 11950 SOUTH, SUITE 201
                                                                                        DRAPER, UTAH 84020

                                                                                       C   GOULD+ ARCHITECTS, LLC - 2021




B




C




                                                                             NO.      REVISION DESCRIPTION




                EAST SIDE PERSPECTIVE               SOUTH SIDE PERSPECTIVE
D




                                                                                               DANIEL E.
                                                                                                GOULD
                                                                                              No. 6045017-0301

E                                                                                             04.01.2021
                                                                                                      O


                                                                             PROJECT NUMBER                                21009


                                                                              NEW OFFICE BUILDING FOR:




                                                                               LONE PEAK
                                                                              PARKWAY LLC
                                                                                     CORE AND SHELL

F
                                                                             134 WEST 13100 SOUTH             DRAPER, UTAH




                                                                               BUILDING
                                                                             PERSPECTIVES


                                                                              SITE PLAN APPLICTION
                                                                                           APRIL 01, 2021
G




                WEST SIDE PERSPECTIVE               NORTH SIDE PERSPECTIVE          A202
     EXHIBIT H
DEVIATION REQUEST
July 13, 2021




Draper Community Development Department
Attn: Maryann Pickering, AICP
1020 Pioneer Rd.
Draper, UT 84020

Dear Maryann,

My name is Greg Wall with Avenue Consultants. I am writing on behalf of Lone Peak Parkway,
LLC, the owners of a 1.1-acre vacant parcel of land at 134 W. 13100 South in Draper. The
owners of Lone Peak Parkway LLC are planning to build a new three-story Class A office building
with approximately 24,000 square feet on the site.

As we were going through the application process, you brought to our attention that we would
need to request a deviation from standards on the landscape strip between the two north-south
rows of parking spaces to the east of the building. Please view this letter as that formal request
for the deviation.

We ran into some challenges to include the standard landscape strip in our site plan, due to a
lack of east-west space on the site. We’ve worked with the Draper City engineering department
to have the building located as far westward on the site as possible. During the first review of
the site plan application, we were informed by the Draper City Fire Marshall that a wider drive
lane would be required east of the building to accommodate the fire apparatus in the event of
an onsite emergency. We also re-engineered the stormwater detention on the site per the
recommendation of the Draper City engineer to be above ground to the east and north of the
parking lot instead of a subsurface chamber detention system due to high groundwater.

Due to these circumstances, we propose using the design in the submitted civil plans with
landscaped parking islands at the north and south end of those parking areas, with a diamond
landscape planter in the middle. We believe this configuration is the optimal to accommodate
the fire truck turnaround, provide the electric vehicle charging stations that are proposed for the
site, meet the parking space requirement, and still include attractive interior landscaping for the
parking lot, which has been designed by PKJ Landscape architects.




                6605 South Redwood Road, Suite 200 • Taylorsville, UT 84123 • 801-207-7660
                                     www.avenueconsultants.com
                                                   1
We respectfully request that you approve this deviation request with the design in the
submitted application package. We look forward to sharing our design with you and the Draper
Planning Commission at the July 22, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting.

Best Regards,



Greg B Wall, MRED
Avenue Consultants
Cell: 801-663-1206




            6605 South Redwood Road, Suite 200 • Taylorsville, UT 84123 • 801-207-7660
                                 www.avenueconsultants.com
                                               2
    EXHIBIT I
PLAT AMENDMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I, BAHRAM RAHIMZADEGAN, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LONE PEAK PARKWAY SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13100 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LICENSED TO PRACTICE IN THE STATE OF UTAH, AND THAT I HAVE MADE A SURVEY OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL OF LAND SHOWN AND DESCRIBED ON THIS MAP. I ALSO CERTIFY THAT BY AUTHORITY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE OWNERS I HAVE SUBDIVIDED SAID PARCEL INTO A LOT TO BE HEREAFTER KNOWN AS:
                                                                                                                                                              AMENDING ALL OF LOT 5, LOT 6, AND THE REMAINDER OF LOT 7 TK ACRES AMENDED SUBDIVISION, AMENDING LOTS 3 & 4                                                                                                                                                                PRO                                                                                                LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE SURVEY WAS PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH GENERALLY ACCEPTED SURVEYING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PEAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PRACTICES, AND WAS MARKED ON THE GROUND AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 1
                                                                                                              20           0             20             40                   60                        EXETER DRAPER LAND, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                             27-36-428-004                                         SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER                                                                                                                                                                   VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BOOK/PAGE:2021P/99
                                                                                                                                  Scale 1" = 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEGAL DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                           SOUTH LINE OF GREENFIELD FARMS SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A PART OF SECTION 36, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN;
                                                                                                                           PRIOR TO SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER AMENDING THE SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALL OF LOT 5, LOT 6, AND THE REMAINDER OF LOT 7 TK ACRES AMENDED SUBDIVISION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AMENDING LOTS 3 & 4, RECORDED IN BOOK 2005P, PAGE 248 OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RECORDERS OFFICE, AND A VACATED PORTION OF 13100 SOUTH OF SAID SUBDIVISION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N 89°54'12" W 333.53'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BEGINNING AT A POINT AT THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 5, TK ACRES AMENDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBDIVISION, AMENDING LOTS 3 & 4, RECORDED IN BOOK 2005P, PAGE 248 OF THE SALT
                                                                              .0 0
                                                                                     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LAKE COUNTY RECORDERS OFFICE, SAID POINT IS ALSO A POINT ON THE NORTHERLY RIGHT
                                                                         50                                                                                           EXISTING DRAINAGE, AND TRAIL EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OF WAY LINE OF 13100 SOUTH STREET, AND RUNNING THENCE ALONG THE NORTH RIGHT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10' PU&DE                                                                                                                                                 BOUNDARY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                      FROM TK ACRES SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WAY LINE OF SAID STREET NORTH 89°52'00" WEST 124.17 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 89°16'30"
                                                                                                 N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CENTERLINE                                                                                                              WEST 17.00 FEET TO A CURVE TO THE LEFT HAVING A RADIUS OF 175.04 FEET, A CENTRAL
                                                                                                   33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIGHT OF WAY                                                                                                            ANGLE OF 23°26'10" AND A CHORD THAT BEARS SOUTH 77°33'25" WEST 71.10 FEET; THENCE
                                                                                                     °5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ALONG SAID CURVE A DISTANCE OF 71.60 FEET TO A REVERSE CURVE TO THE RIGHT HAVING
                                                                                                       6'1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A RADIUS OF 10.00 FEET, A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 89°05'42" AND A CHORD THAT BEARS NORTH
                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                          "W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEED LINE                                                                                                               69°38'06" WEST 14.03 FEET; THENCE ALONG SAID CURVE A DISTANCE OF 15.55 FEET TO A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               POINT ON THE EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF LONE PEAK PARKWAY; THENCE ALONG THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EASEMENT LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EAST RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF SAID PARKWAY NORTH 25°06'31" WEST 1.31 FEET TO A CURVE
                                                                                                                   80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MONUMENT                                                                                                                TO THE LEFT HAVING A RADIUS OF 812.18 FEET, A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 9°10'46" AND A CHORD
                                                                                                                     .62




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THAT BEARS NORTH 29°20'51" WEST 129.98 FEET; THENCE ALONG SAID CURVE A DISTANCE
                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF 130.12 FEET; THENCE CONTINUING ALONG SAID PARKWAY NORTH 33°56'14" WEST 80.62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BOUNDARY CORNER                                                                                                         FEET MORE OR LESS TO A POINT ON THE SOUTH LINE OF SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                    7' PU&DE                                                                                                                                                                                  7' PU&DE                                                                                                                                                                         RECORDED IN BOOK 2021P, PAGE 99 OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDERS OFFICE;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PUBLIC UTILITY AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS AS SHOWN (PU&DE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WHICH AMENDED GREENFIELD FARMS SUBDIVISION RECORDED IN BOOK 76-4, PAGE 74 OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 0°10'24" W 170.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  47,929 SQ. FT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDERS OFFICE; THENCE SOUTH 89°54'12" EAST 333.53 FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MORE OR LESS ALONG THE SOUTH LINE OF SAID SUBDIVISION TO THE NORTH EAST CORNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    134 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 4                                                                                  OF LOT 5 OF SAID TK ACRES SUBDIVISION; THENCE SOUTH 0°10'24" WEST 170.45 FEET MORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OR LESS ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT 5 TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CURVELO SMITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (175.22')'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VENTURE LLC                                                                                 CONTAINS: 47,991 SQ. FT. OR 1.10 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    27-36-427-032
                                                                                         LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OWNER'S DEDICATION
                                                                                           NE (PU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Curve Table                                                       KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I/WE, THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER(S) OF THE HEREON
                                                                                             PE BLI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND, HEREBY SET APART AND SUBDIVIDE THE SAME INTO LOTS AND
                                                                                                AK C R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Curve #   Length   Radius       Delta        Bearing               Chord
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STREETS AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT AND NAME SAID PLAT LONE PEAK PARKWAY, AND DO HEREBY
                                                                                                  PA OA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C1      71.60    175.04     23°26'10"   S77°33'25"W              71.10                     DEDICATE, GRANT AND CONVEY TO DRAPER CITY, UTAH: (1) ALL THOSE PARTS OR PORTIONS OF
                                                                                                    RK D)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C2      15.55    10.00      89°05'42"   S69°38'06"E              14.03                     SAID TRACT OF LAND DESIGNATED AS STREETS, THE SAME TO BE USED AS PUBLIC
                                                                                                       WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THOROUGHFARES FOREVER; (2) THOSE CERTAIN PUBLIC UTILITY AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Line Table                C3      130.12   812.18     9°10'46"     N29°20'51"W             129.98                    SHOWN HEREON, THE SAME TO BE USED FOR THE INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, AND OPERATION
                                                                                                          Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Line #    Length      Direction       C4      71.60    175.04     23°26'10"   S77°48'24"W              71.10                     OF PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE LINES AND DRAINAGE; AND (3) THOSE PARCELS DESIGNATED AS
                                                                                                                                                     C8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PUBLIC OPEN SPACE, PARKS, TRAIL OR EASEMENTS, OR OF SIMILAR DESIGNATION.
                                                                                                                                                   C3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L1        17.00    S89° 16' 30"W     C5      15.55    10.00      89°05'42"   S69°23'07"E              14.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L2        1.31     N25° 06' 31"W     C6      63.87    175.04     20°54'23"   S78°49'18"W              63.52

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING PUE, AND ALL PUBLIC UTILITY                                                                                             L3        17.00    S89° 31' 29"W     C7      22.70    30.00      43°20'58"   S77°28'54"E              22.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EASEMENTS LYING WITHIN THE AREA OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WE HAVE HEREUNTO SET OUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VACATED STREET FROM TK ACRES SUBDIVISION                                                                                         L4        1.31     N24° 51' 32"W     C8      128.20   812.18     9°02'38"     N29°24'55"W             128.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO BE RELOCATED PER THIS PLAT AMENDMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HANDS THIS            DAY OF 2021.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10' PU&DE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C6                            L1                                   N 89°52'00" W 124.17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C1                           (L3)
                                                                                                                                                                                            C7                            (C4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                             L2
                                                                                                                                                                             (L4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STATE OF UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                 )




                                                                                                                                                                                       C2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COUNTY OF SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13100 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                                                                                                00'                  (C5
                                                                                                                                                             50.                        )        AREA TO BE DEDICATED                                                                            (PUBLIC ROAD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 AS PUBLIC RIGHT OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ON THIS ______ DAY OF _______________, 20 ___, PERSONALLY APPEARED BEFORE ME
                                                                                                                                                                                                 WAY                                     54.42'                                                     124.17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BASIS OF BEARING: N 89°52'00" W 622.33'                                                                                                                                                                                     __________________________________________, WHO BEING BY ME DULY SWORN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DID SAY THAT HE/SHE IS THE _____________________________________OF
                                                                                                                                                          FOUND MONUMENT IN RING AND LID
                                                                                                                                                         AT THE INTERSECTION OF 13100 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOUND MONUMENT IN RING AND LID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               _____________________________________ , A CORPORATION, AND THAT THE FORGOING
                                                                                                                                                          STREET AND THE ORIGINAL 135 WEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AT THE CENTERLINE OF 13100 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INSTRUMENT WAS SIGNED IN BEHALF OF SAID CORPORATION BY THE AUTHORITY OF ITS BOARD
                                                                                                                                                     STREET AS SHOWN ON TK ACRES AMENDED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STREET AS SHOWN ON TK ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF DIRECTORS, AND HE/SHE ACKNOWLEDGED TO THAT SAID CORPORATION EXECUTED THE SAME.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AMENDED

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ________________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PLEASE SEE RECORD OF           NOTARY PUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TK ACRES AMENDED                                                                                                                                                                           SURVEY ON FILE IN THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOOK/PAGE:2005P/248                                                                                                                                                                        SURVEYORS OFFICE FOR           RESIDING IN __________________ COUNTY, _______________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FULL CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DIAGRAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.   THE BASIS OF BEARING FOR THIS SURVEY IS NORTH 89°52'00" WEST, ALONG THE MONUMENT LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OF 13100 SOUTH STREET. AS SHOWN HEREON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.   COURSES AND DISTANCES SHOWN ON THIS MAP ARE MEASURED DIMENSIONS TAKEN FROM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ACTUAL FIELD MEASUREMENTS, UNLESS CONTAINED WITHIN PARENTHESIS INDICATING A RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COURSE OR DISTANCE. RECORD INFORMATION IS TAKEN FROM MAPS, PLATS, DEEDS OF RECORD,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OR OTHER SOURCES OF RECORD INFORMATION.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COUNTY SURVEYOR                                                           DEVELOPER                                                                                                                                 LONE PEAK PARKWAY SUBDIVISION
C:\WCEC\Draper Building\Draper Sub.dwg Jul 07, 2021 - 10:13pm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LONE PEAK PARKWAY LLC                                                                                                      AMENDING ALL OF LOT 5, LOT 6, AND THE REMAINDER OF LOT 7 TK ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AMENDED SUBDIVISION, AMENDING LOTS 3 & 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12481 S. FORT STREET,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUITE 150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER, UT 84020                                                            WALL CONSULTANT GROUP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9980 SOUTH 300 WEST, SUITE 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SANDY, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PHONE: 801-456-3847

                                                                EASEMENT APPROVAL                                                    COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                         CITY PLANNING COMMISSION                             SEWER DISTRICT                                     CITY ATTORNEY                                                              CITY ENGINEER                                                         MAYOR                                                                     COUNTY RECORDER
