NovusAGENDA
Planning Commission AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper Planning Commission will hold a Business Meeting on Thursday, January 28, 2021, at 6:30 PM, in the Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah 84020.   The Agenda will be as follows: 6:30 PM    Business Meeting 1. Electronic Meeting Notice
Listen through our website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email your comments to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by Noon on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by noon, on the day of the meeting.
2. WRITTEN DETERMINATION 2021-03 Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 52-4-207(4)
A. I, Chair Andrew Adams, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Planning Commission with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Planning Commission to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
B.        The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper continue to fluctuate at high levels, both of which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system and health care providers.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with state and local health departments health orders.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
C.         This written determination shall be included in the public notice of the Draper City Planning Commission meetings and shall be read at the beginning of an electronic meeting held without an anchor location.
D.         The public notice of any meeting conducted pursuant to this written determination shall include information on how members of the public may hear, or view and hear, or make a comment at the meeting. 3. Public Hearing: Siempre at South Mountain Site Plan (Administrative Action) On the request of Randall Deschamps, representing Siempre LLC, for a Site Plan  on the South Mountain Golf Course property that contains the Golf Course Club House for the development of an event center.  The property is located at 1247 E Mike Weir Dr. Application SPR-994-2020. Staff contact is Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us. 4. Public Hearing: City Initiated Chickens for Familial Gain Text Amendment (Legislative Item) On the request of Draper City for a  Text Amendment to amend Sections 9-3-040, 9-9-080, 9-10-090, and 9-27-055 of Draper City Municipal Code. This application is known as the City Initiated Chickens for Familial Gain Text Amendment. Application: TEXTMAP-1125-2020. Staff contact: Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draper.ut.us. 5. Adjournment Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning Commission regarding the transfer, issuance or denial of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the City Council by filing written notice of appeal stating the grounds therefore within fourteen (14) days from the date of such final determination. SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.   Date Posted: January 22, 2021 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.