                                   ORDINANCE NO. 1492

        AN ORDINANCE OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL ENACTING A TEMPORARY
        LAND USE REGULATION THAT SUSPENDS CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF
        SUBSECTION 9-26-080(D) OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
        REGARDING TEMPORARY SIGNAGE.

        WHEREAS, Section 10-9a-504 of the Utah Code allows a municipality, without a public
hearing, to enact ordinances establishing temporary land use regulations for any part or all
of the municipality upon a finding of compelling, countervailing public interest made by the
legislative body; and

     WHEREAS, Section 9-26-080 of Draper City Municipal Code establishes rules for
temporary signs within Draper City; and

       WHEREAS, Section 9-26-080 of Draper City Municipal Code permits temporary signs
for any business up to four times per calendar year for up to fourteen days per occurrence,
and permits banners within the first thirty days of the issuance of a new business license;
and

      WHEREAS, the community currently faces challenges related to a pandemic that
causes an illness called COVID-19; and

       WHEREAS, the nature of the pandemic has had a major impact on businesses in the
city and is negatively impacting the health, safety and welfare of Draper City residents; and

       WHEREAS, the Draper City Council finds that there is a compelling, countervailing
public interest against limiting temporary signage in the manner required by certain
provisions of Section 9-26-080 of the Draper City Municipal Code at this time; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed temporary ordinance, and has
found that suspending certain provisions of Section 9-26-080 of the Draper City Municipal
Code serves a compelling, countervailing public interest in preserving the economic base of
Draper City and is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City of Draper
and its residents.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH:

       Section 1.    Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings regarding the temporary suspension of subsections (D)(3) and (D)(4) of Section 9-
26-080 of the Draper City Municipal Code attached hereto as Exhibit A: 1) Draper City
businesses seeking to advertise using temporary signs shall not be bound by subsections

Ordinance No. 1492                             1                                    Temporary Signs
                                                                       Temporary Land Use Regulation
(D)(3) and (D)(4); and 2) The proposed amendments serve the best interest of the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper.

        Section 2.      Suspension. The temporary suspension of Section 9-26-080(D)(3), (4)
shall last for the earlier of a period of six (6) months or until otherwise rescinded by the
legislative body.

       Section 3.    Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to
correct any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors prior to
submitting the Ordinance for publication.

       Section 4.    Severability Clause. If any part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance and all provisions, clauses and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 5.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
_____ DAY OF      , 2021.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                         YES                      NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry


Ordinance No. 1492                             2                                     Temporary Signs
                                                                        Temporary Land Use Regulation
 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




                         EXHIBIT A

Ordinance No. 1492           3                    Temporary Signs
                                     Temporary Land Use Regulation
9-26-080: TEMPORARY SIGNAGE:
Temporary signage outlined in this section are allowed subject to the filing of an
application for and issuance of a temporary signage permit, unless expressly exempted in
this section.

      A. General Requirements: The following shall apply to all temporary signage as
          outlined herein:
            1. Such signs shall not be illuminated unless by way of permanently
                 installed indirect lighting sources.
            2. Such signs shall not be placed in any public or private right of way, park
                 strips, medians, or roundabouts.
            3. Such signs shall not be placed so as to create a traffic hazard in a clear
                 view area.
            4. Such signs shall require application for an issuance of a temporary sign
                 permit prior to installing or erecting a temporary sign, unless expressly
                 exempted in this section.
            5. All temporary signage must be set back beyond the farthestmost part of
                 the permanent ground mounted signage on the same property that
                 fronts the same property line.
            6. Businesses utilizing electronic message centers as provided within this
                 chapter shall not be allowed the use of temporary signage as outlined
                 within this section.

      B. Special Event Signs: Temporary signs for events that have been issued a special
      events permit may be erected as allowed in this subsection.
             1.   Such signs shall be permitted in all zones following application for and
                  approval of a temporary signage permit.
             2.   Such signs are subject to the following requirements:
                   a.    Such signs may be posted for a period not to exceed twenty one
                         (21) days, including days after the event.
                   b.    Special event signs shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
                         size, and shall not have more than two (2) faces, and must be
                         securely attached to the ground by posts with a stabilizing
                         crossbar between the ground posts at the top of the sign.
                   c.    Up to thirty five (35) signs are allowed per event.
                   d.    Permission for the placement of such signs from property
                         owners shall be required as a part of an application for a
                         temporary signage permit.
               e.   Special event signs for the same special event shall be placed no
                    less than seventy (70) yards apart along a street.
               f.   Special event signs may be placed no more than one (1) time in
                    six (6) months for the same event.
               g.   Special event signs shall not be placed in areas designated by
                    Draper City as “not permissible” on specific Draper City owned
                    property.

 C. Properties Subject To Development Or Construction: Properties which have
 been approved for a subdivision or site plan are subject to the following guidelines:
       1.   Properties subject to development or construction shall be allowed one
            on site sign.
       2.   The maximum area of such sign shall be forty eight (48) square feet.
       3.   The maximum height of such sign shall be eight feet (8').
       4.   Such sign may be illuminated by indirect lighting only.
       5.   Such sign shall be removed immediately upon issuance of the final
            building permit for residential properties or the final certificate of
            occupancy for nonresidential properties.

 D. Banners: Banners may be used subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Such signs may be used in all nonresidential zones and the RM1 and
           RM2 residential zones.
      2.   Such signs shall be allowable for the following holiday periods without a
           permit:



Presidents Day and Valentine's    February for 5 days including the holiday
Day
Easter                            March or April for 5 days including the holiday

Memorial Day                      May for 5 days including the holiday

July 4                            5 days including the holiday

July 24                           5 days including the holiday

Labor Day                         September for 5 days including the holiday

Thanksgiving                      November for 7 days including the holiday
Holiday season                   For 23 days starting December 10 and ending
                                 January 2



       3.  Such signs shall be allowable for an additional four (4) occurrences per
           calendar year up to fourteen (14) days per occurrence. Occurrences
           may run consecutively, upon issuance of a temporary sign permit for
           such, but shall be considered independent occurrences.
       4.  Businesses which have received a new business license shall be allowed
           a banner sign for thirty (30) days during a grand opening upon issuance
           of a temporary sign permit. This permit shall not count as an
           occurrence.
       5.  One banner per street frontage may be a maximum of thirty two (32)
           square feet.
       6.  Such signs must be securely attached to a structure, fence, or to ground
           posts. When mounted to the ground, banners may be not higher than
           forty eight inches (48") from the ground to the top of the sign and must
           have a stabilizing crossbar between the ground posts at the top of the
           sign.
       7.  Such signs shall not be located within any public or private right-of-way,
           park strips, medians, or roundabouts.
       8.  Such signs shall not be placed where they obstruct the view of any sign
           identified in subsection 9-26-100A of this chapter.
       9.  Banners may be two (2) faced but may not be split faced as identified in
           subsection 9-26-060H2 of this chapter.
       10. Permission for the placement of such signs from property owners shall
           be required as a part of an application for a temporary signage
           permit. (Ord. 963, 2-15-2011; amd. Ord. 1098, 8-8-2015; Ord. 1437, 5-19-
           2020)
