                   REQUEST FOR COUNCIL ACTION

To:                          Mayor & City Council
From:                        Hazel Dunsmore
Date:                        04/28/2021
Subject:                     Resolution 21-14 amending Section 10400 – Vehicle Usage & Accident
                             Reporting


Applicant Presentation:      N/A

Staff Presentation:          Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource Director

RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Resolution 21-14 amending Section 10400 – Vehicle Usage & Accident Reporting


This is a proposed amendment to Section 10400 of Draper City Personnel Policy to update the following
items:
     Change the section title to Vehicle Usage and Incident Reporting.
     Clarify the definition of “reportable incident.”
     Introduce a disciplinary matrix for vehicle violations to ensure consistency across departments.
     Change the members of the Accident Review Committee to be the Assistant City Manager,
        Human Resources Director, Risk Management Coordinator, Public Works Area Manager and the
        City Attorney (in an advisory capacity).
     Fix some grammatical and format errors.

Input on the changes was received from the current Accident Review Committee members and the
proposed changes have been reviewed by Department Directors and the City Attorney.

FISCAL IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact.

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
   Proposed Resolution No. 21-14
           RESOLUTION NO. 21-14 OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING
             SECTION 10400 – VEHICLE USAGE AND ACCIDENT REPORTING,
                        OF THE PERSONNEL POLICY MANUAL.


         WHEREAS, The City Council, from time to time, reviews and adopts policies and procedures to
assist in the efficient utilization of scarce City resources and the fair and uniform application of requirements
and benefits to City employees; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council has reviewed the proposed amendments to the Personnel Policy
Manual and has determined the need to amend Section 10400; and

        WHEREAS, The City Council believes this change to the Personnel Policy Manual is in the best
interest of the employees of Draper City.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Amendment. The Draper City Council does hereby approve the amendment to the
Personnel Policy to amend Section 10400 as attached hereto as Exhibit “A”.

         Section 2.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Resolution, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

        Section 3.      Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage.

    PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, THIS THE 4th DAY OF May, 2021.


                                                        DRAPER CITY


                                                        _____________________________
                                                        Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder




                                                       2
VOTE TAKEN:             YES   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Lowery

Councilmember Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker




                        3
EXHIBIT A




    4
                    Section 10400 – VEHICLE USAGE AND INCIDENT REPORTING

City employees are accountable for the safe and responsible operation of City Vehicles and shall follow the
usage guidelines outlined below. This policy establishes procedures for City Vehicle usage and reporting
and reviewing any Reportable Incident that takes place in which a City Vehicle or City property is involved.

Definitions:

“City Vehicle” is any vehicle or motorized equipment or trailer owned by the City or a personal or rental
vehicle while being operated on City business.

“Reportable Incident” is any incident involving a City Vehicle that creates a medically treated workplace
injury, results in damage to a City Vehicle or another vehicle or any real or personal property, or damage to
real propertyan injury to any person, or potential for serious injury or loss of lifethe immobilization of any
City Vehicle or another vehicle, or has the potential to become a liability claim. This includes any accident
involving the use of a City Vehicle, or other City property whether damage was sustained or not.

“Preventable Incident” is an incident in which the employee did not follow proper procedures and/or did not
do everything reasonably expected to avoid the incident.

“Non-Preventable Incident” is an incident in which the employee followed proper procedures and did
everything that could be reasonably expected to avoid the incident.

Policy:

1.    Employees are accountable for the responsible use of City Vehicle(s) and other City Property. An
     employee who drives any City Vehicle on City business must:

     A) Valid Driver License. Be a responsible driver and possess a valid driver’s license.
     B) Carry Insurance Coverage. Ensure that they have vehicle liability insurance in at least the
        minimum amounts required by state law, and carry proof of such coverage. The employee
        assumes liability for his/her personal vehicle while using it for City business.
     C) Employee Impairment. No employee may operate a City Vehicle or City equipment while his or her
        performance is impaired by alcohol, any controlled substance, or any prescribed or over-the-
        counter drug. An employee who drives a City Vehicle as part of their job duties shall notify his or
        her supervisor of any prescription drug they are taking which may impair their ability to safely
        operate a vehicle.
     D) Check Vehicle. Inspect the vehicle and confirm that it is in safe operating condition as per
        departmental procedures.
     E) Follow Personnel Policy. Read and comply with Section 10350 – Distracted Driving.
     F) Obey Traffic Laws. Observe all traffic laws, including wearing a seatbelt whether driving or as a
        passenger.
     G) Assume Responsibility for Fines and Tickets. Report any tickets while driving a City Vehicle to the
        employee’s supervisor and Ppay any fines, tickets or parking violations incurred while driving on
        City business.
     H) Perpendicular Parking. City Vehicles shall be backed into a parking space, or positioned forward in
        a pull through parking space.
2. Reportable Incidents. All Reportable Incidents shall be reported to the employee’s supervisor and, if
   applicable, to the appropriate local law enforcement agency.

3. Employee/Driver Responsibility in the Case of a Reportable Incident:

    A) Stop at once – If possible, and it is safe to do so, leave vehicles in place until police or fire
       department personnel direct otherwise.
    B) Call for assistance – For police and medical assistance call 911.
    C) Ensure safety – Set out warning devices if they are available and turn on hazard lights.
    D) Remain at the scene – Do not leave the scene of the incident until police arrive and you are told
       you may leave.
    E) Do not admit fault – Do not discuss the incident with anyone except the police, your supervisor,
       department director, or the city manager.
    F) Contact your supervisor – All Reportable Incidents shall be reported immediately by the employee
       to their immediate supervisor. Failure to report may result in disciplinary action up to and including
       termination.
    G) Cooperate with police – The police will have a “Driver Information Form” for all vehicle operators to
       fill out. Information needed to complete the form (i.e. registration and insurance card) should be
       located in the glove box of each City Vehicle.
    H) Complete all appropriate city incident forms located in the accident packet in the glove box of the
       vehicle and submit them to the supervisor within one business day of the Reportable Incident.
       Failure to do so may result in disciplinary action or personal liability for damages
    I) If a supervisor is not on scene, take thorough pictures of all vehicles involved in the Reportable
       Incident as well as the surrounding scene.
    J) Reportable Incidents that involve City Vehicles with non-city owned vehicles or property should be
       investigated by other police departments or public safety agencies whenever possible.

4. Supervisor Responsibility:
   A) The supervisor of the employee(s) involved in a Reportable Incident shall respond to the scene of
      the incident. The supervisor shall notify the Department Director, the Public Works Area Manager,
      and the Risk Management Coordinator as soon as possible.
   B) The supervisor shall ensure that all appropriate forms are filled out properly, and thorough photos
      are taken of the vehicles involved, damage to other property, , as well as the scene.
   C) The supervisor will ensure that the employee is drug and alcohol tested as soon as possible, but
      no later than six hours after the accident by taking the employee to Concentra , 12422 S. 450 E.,
      Draper, during normal business hours. After hours call CODA Testing at 801-561-2777.
      Supervisors shall not leave the employee unattended until drug and alcohol testing has been
      completed. If the vehicle was unattended at the time of the Reportable Incident, and the cause of
      the accident is not linked to any action of the driver, there is no need to drug test the employee.
   D) Supervisors shall conduct an initial investigation and submit all paperwork and associated photos
      to the Risk Management Coordinator, their Department Director, and the Public Works Area
      Manager as soon as possible, but no later than two working days after the Reportable Incident.
   E) The Risk Management Office will conduct a thorough review of the accident and investigation.
   F) The Fleet Division will inspect all city-owned vehicles to assess damages no later than five working
      days after the Reportable Incident.
    G) The City Manager shall be notified as soon as possible if there are injuries involved with the
       Reportable Incident.
    H) All non-drivable city-owned vehicles damaged in the Reportable Incident shall be towed to Public
       Works. The police or the Public Works Area Manager will call for tow.

5. Department Director Responsibility:
   A) Ensure that employees and supervisors understand and comply with sections 3 and 4 of this
       policy.
   B) Notify the Risk Management Coordinator and Public Works Area Manager as soon as possible
       and confirm that an incident report is prepared and sent to Risk Management no later than two
       working days after the accident.
   C) Impose discipline recommended by the ARC using the disciplinary matrix below for consistency
       between departments and to ensure that any appropriate disciplinary action takes place in a
       timely manner. If the appropriate disciplinary action was not taken as recommended by the ARC,
       or outlined by the disciplinary matrix, the Department Director will state in writing to the City
       Manager why the appropriate disciplinary action was not followed. The ARC will maintain a record
       to ensure there is consistency between departments.
   D). Provide a copy of the disciplinary action taken to Human Resources for the employee’s personnel
       file.

6. Accident Review Committee. An internal Accident Review Committee (ARC) shall be established
   consisting of the following representatives or designee : the Assistant City Manager, Human Resources
   Director , Risk Management Coordinator, Public Works Area Manager -and City Attorney (in an
   advisory capacity). This committee shall review all incidents involving City Vehicles and other City
   owned and operated assets. This committee must have at least three representatives present for final
   recommendations to be made. The ARC may also convene and review any incident or loss event at
   the special request of the City Manager or affiliated Department Director.

    The ARC will meet together with the involved employee and his/her Department Director or Designee.
    The Department Director or designee shall come prepared to give a detailed account of the incident in
    question. Attendance by the employee shall be at the Department Director’s discretion. The Risk
    Management Coordinator will chair the committee during the ARC review.

    The ARC shall meet on a regular basis, as determined by the City Manager, to review accidents and
    determine:
        A) The cause of the Reportable incidentIncident.
        B) Whether the Reportable Incident was preventable or non-preventable.
        C) Whether the employee was following safety policies and practices.
        D) How similar incidents may be prevented in the future.
        E) If the appropriate disciplinary action was not taken as recommended by the ARC, or outlined
            by the disciplinary matrix, the Department Director will state in writing to the City Manager why
            the appropriate disciplinary action was not followed. The ARC will maintain a record to ensure
            there is consistency between departments.
        F) Whether disciplinary action is warranted, and if so, what level of discipline is warranted. If disciplinary
           action is recommended, the Department Director shall both adopt and implement the committee’s
           recommendation, according the disciplinary matrix, or state in writing to the City Manager why the
            recommendation was not followed. The ARC shall also follow-up with the Department Director to
            ensure that appropriate disciplinary action was enacted and documented. The ARC will maintain a
            record to ensure there is consistency between all departments.


Disciplinary Matrix (based on Section 5030 – Corrective Action)

A. No action required.
B. Documented counseling (may be removed from personnel file after one year of incident free driving).
   May also be required to take a defensive driving course.
C. Written corrective action.
D. Written corrective action and up to a two-day suspension without pay. May also include performance
   improvement plan, defensive driving course, ride-along and coaching or other corrective measures.
E. Dismissal. Per Section 5030, the Department Director shall consult with Human Resources, City
   Attorney and the City Manager prior to any dismissal.

Departments can be more restrictive in their disciplinary action, but not less.

 Disciplinary Matrix                                                         A      B       C       D         E
 Non-preventable incident/accident                                           X
 Preventable incident no damage                                              X
 Repeat preventable incident within one month                                       X
 Failure to report a vehicle incident                                               X
 Failure to take reasonably required action                                         X
 Preventable incident involving minor damage less than $2,500                       X
 Preventable incident with damage over $2,501 but less than $8,000                          X
 Failure to observe traffic laws                                                            X
 Failure to follow Draper City Policy                                                       X
 Preventable incident involving injury                                                      X
 Repeat vehicle or equipment incidents within 6 month time period                           X
 Driving with unsecured load that causes an incident                                        X
 Preventable incident involving damage over $8,000                                                  X
 Leaving the scene of an accident                                                                   X
 Repeat preventable incidents involving damage or injury within 6                                   X
 month time period
 More than three preventable incidents within 6 month time period                                   X
 Pattern of more than four incidents within a 1 month time period                                   X
 (preventable or non-preventable)
 Operating vehicle or equipment while impaired (failed breath alcohol                                         X
 or drug screen)
 Reckless driving resulting in ticket                                                                         X
 Willful intent to harm                                                                                       X
 Preventable incident that results in the death of another person                                             X

7. ARC Findings and Recommendations. A written record summarizing the ARC’s findings and
   recommendations will be prepared by the Risk Management Coordinator. A copy will be sent to the
    Department Director. The Department Director will make the final decision on any and all applicable
    disciplinary and/or corrective actions taken and implemented. The Department Director will also
    compile a written statement indicating the final decision made, including supporting commentary, and
    submit it to the City Manager. Any disciplinary and/or corrective action the Department Director
    imposes shall follow the disciplinary procedures outlined above and as stated in Section 5030 –
    Corrective Action of the Draper City Personnel Policy. The involved employee’s immediate supervisor
    will be responsible for administering or monitoring the implementation of the recommended actions or
    programs as chosen by the Department Director. A copy of all disciplinary action shall be forwarded to
    Human Resources for the employee’s personnel file.

8. Appeals. There is no right to appeal the ARC’s findings and recommendations. An appeal of any
   discipline or corrective action decision and/or implementation resulting from an incident will follow the
   standard disciplinary appeal process as outlined in Section 5030.
