                                       Development Review Committee
                                            1020 East Pioneer Road
                                              Draper, UT 84020
                                                May 3, 2021

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: May 13, 2021

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      South Willow Pad Site - Java Express – Amended Site Plan Request
         Application No.: SPR-1032-2020
         Applicant:        James Duffin, representing South Willow Business Park, LLC and
                           Thomas A. Duffin
         Project Location: Approximately 177 W. 12300 S.
         Current Zoning: CR (Regional Commercial) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 3.05 Acres (Approximately 132,853 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of an Amended Site Plan including a
                           deviation from site design standards in the CR zone regarding a
                           drive through restaurant.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of an Amended Site Plan including a deviation
from site design standards for approximately 3.05 acres located on the south side of 12300
S, at approximately 177 W. 12300 S. (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned CR. The
applicant is requesting that an amended site plan be approved to allow for the
development of a section of the parking lot for a drive through restaurant.

A previous site plan approval for a drive through restaurant on this property was approved
by the Planning Commission on August 23, 2018 as part of an overall site plan approval
that included other commercial buildings now constructed on a separate parcel to the east
of the subject property. The proposed site layout differs from the previously approved site
plan hence the amendment request. Additionally the applicant is requesting a deviation



South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                  App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                            1
from required site design standards, and as a condition of the previous approval requires
re-review and approval from the Planning Commission at this time.

ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Community
Commercial land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the CR zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 “the purpose of the CR zone is to provide
areas where a combination of destination oriented business, retail commercial, entertainment,
and related uses may be established, maintained and protected to serve both residents and
nonresidents of the city. Typical uses in this zone include large scale, master planned commercial
centers with outlying commercial pads, big box stores, and offices.”

The CR zoning surrounds the subject property on the East and South. CBP
(Business/Manufacturing Park) zoning abuts the property to the West and CSD-LP




South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                    App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                       2
(Commercial Special District Lone Peak) zoning and CBP zoning are to the North across
12300 South.

Site Plan Layout. The proposed site plan layout (Exhibit E) shows the location of the drive
through restaurant on the northwest corner of the subject property. As a change from the
previous site plan, the proposed site plan now includes two drive through queuing lanes.
The building placement as proposed does not comply with DCMC Section 9-22-050(A)
which would require that the main façade and main entrance face the principal street to
which it has frontage. The main entrance faces south towards an outdoor seating area
adjacent to the parking lot, but away from the drive through and queuing lanes on the
opposite side of the building. A deviation from DCMC Section 9-22-050(A) would be
required for approval of the building as proposed.

Site Design Standards Modification. Chapter 22 of the DCMC makes provisions for the
Planning Commission to authorize deviations to strict compliance with the terms of the
Code regarding development design standards. DCMC Section 9-22-030 states that the
Planning Commission may approve site plans that deviate from the requirements of the
design standards within Chapter 22 of the DCMC based on making certain required
findings in whole. Per DCMC Section 9-22-030(B), the Planning Commission shall find an
application complies with at least three of the following criteria:

         1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
            excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
         2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
            area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
         3. The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to
            a transportation facility.
         4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as
            creative design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass
            programs.
         5. The project is an accredited LEED development.
         6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
            master plan or ordinance.
         7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases
            which involve redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor
            structures added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased
            project.
         8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten
            percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting
            beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
         9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
            modern, which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in
            subsection 9-22-040(F) of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.



South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                 App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                      3
         10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
             greater than the minimum required amount.

A request from the applicant’s architect firm for building design deviations from DCMC
Chapter 9-22 to allow for the main building façade and entry to face away from the street is
included as exhibit I in this report. The architectural firm only provided responses to
deviation criteria 9 and 10 and indicated that the applicant’s engineer would provide
additional responses and justifications for the deviation from the building orientation. No
additional response to the criteria for deviation to the building orientation has been
submitted for review. Staff has reviewed the request from the applicant’s architectural firm
and has determined that the building design is indeed modern in its style and is designed
by a firm that employs a licensed architect as required for compliance with criterion 9, and
that the amount of primary materials used on the building façades is greater than the
minimum 10% required for compliance with criterion 10. Absent an applicant response to
the minimum required 3 criteria for approval of a deviation, staff suggests consideration of
criterion 6 by the Planning Commission, that the requested variation is consistent with the
purpose of the design standards and guidelines chapter of ordinance which specifies as its
purpose, “to facilitate exceptional design in the built environment and preserve the quality of life
within Draper City” and any applicable master plan or ordinance.

Circulation. The vehicular circulation for the remainder of the site will remain largely
unchanged. Adequate queuing spaces and lanes are provided in the drive-through lanes
and the entry to them has shifted towards the east of the previously approved location of
the single drive-through aisle. The applicant has indicated that during peak periods
employees will hand deliver orders to the second or outermost drive through lane on the
north. To avoid confusion, vehicles exiting the drive through lane on the south will need to
turn left back into the site and vehicles exiting the drive through lane on the north will need
to turn right and exit out of the site towards 12300 S. A pedestrian sidewalk connecting to
the sidewalk on 12300 S. and a cross walk in front of the drive-through lanes provides
pedestrian access and circulation to the pad site. Pavement markings in compliance with
those shown on the proposed plans will be required.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The landscaping plans (Exhibit F) have been reviewed and
have been found to comply with the requirements of DCMC Chapter 9-23. Landscape
quantities in some locations will exceed the minimum required quantities and coverage. An
additional 1,448 square feet of landscaping will be added to the overall site as part of the
proposed plans. As the area where the new building is proposed to be constructed is
predominantly impervious asphalt parking the additional landscaping amounts represent a
small reduction in the existing impervious surface on the subject property. Based in part
on calculations provided by the applicant approximately 44,812 square feet of landscaping
(26.7%), 34,026 square feet of building coverage (20.3%), and 88,868 square feet of parking
and other impervious surfaces (53%) would be contained in the overall site.




South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                      App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                        4
Parking. According to the overall site plan layout (Exhibit E) and a review of the proposed
use together with the uses in the existing commercial buildings, a total of 194 parking
spaces are required. As allowed as a natural adjustment by DCMC Section 9-25-090(A) the
actual parking count provided can range within 10% of the calculated amount resulting in
this case as a minimum/maximum range of between 175 and 213 parking spaces. The
proposed site plan provides 193 spaces which is within the allowable natural adjustment
range.

Architecture. The elevation drawings provided show the proposed design of the drive
through restaurant which will be a Java Express drive through coffee shop (Exhibit G).
These plans have not been stamped or signed by the architect or professional licensed with
the state of Utah who prepared the drawings as required by DCMC Section 9-05-
090(D)(1)(d), this will be required, and is listed as a condition of approval in the staff
recommendation. The architectural style and form reflects their standard corporate
branding, however the exterior materials and colors are required to reflect those of the
surrounding development per DCMC Section 9-22-040(A). The proposed building elevations
comply with the building design requirements of DCMC Section 9-22-040 related to
entryway design, façade articulation, height, roofline variations, massing, materials,
pedestrian considerations and fenestration. In compliance with DCMC Section 9-22-040(F),
exterior finish materials on the north, south, and east façades of the building will be 100%
in primary materials of stone, concrete fiber composite siding, and metal composite
material, while the west façade will consist of 75% primary materials of concrete fiber
composite siding and metal composite material and 25% secondary metal material.
Additional decorative accents of 1 inch metal tubing will be added to all sides, particularly
along the roof parapet and the southern façade. Areas where proposed signage may be
located are shown on the plans as required, but approval of the signs requires a separate
application, review, and permit. The main building entry faces away from the street and
does not comply with the site design requirements of 9.22.050(A). A deviation for that
element of the design has been requested by the applicant (Exhibit K) as explained in more
detail above in the site design standards modification section of this report.

Lighting. The exterior lighting plan (exhibit H) is in compliance with the design and
illumination standards of DCMC Chapter 9-20. Two existing pole lights in the parking lot will
be removed and one will be re-installed to the east of its current location. The remainder of
the exterior lighting will be located on the building itself, including under the canopy
covering the outdoor seating area. The exterior lighting on the building will be turned off
after operating hours so as to not exceed the after-hours illumination intensity
requirements of DCMC Section 9-20-070.

Fencing. No changes in fencing are proposed with this application.

Previous Conditions of Approval. The Planning Commission placed the following conditions
of approval on the Site Plan on August 23, 2018:



South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                 App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                     5
         1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering Division, Building Division,
            Planning Division, Public Works Department, and Fire Marshal are satisfied
            throughout development of the site.
         2. That a building permit is issued prior to constructing of the Phase 2 Building.
         3. That the future building on the northwest pad site of Phase 1 will require its own
            site plan review.
         4. That a building permit is issued prior to construction of the buildings.
         5. That signage is not approved with this site plan approval. All signage requires
            separate permits and is required to comply with Chapter 9-26 of the Draper City
            Municipal Code.
         6. That Sheet SD-1.00 is modified to show that the number of required parking
            stalls for the existing dental practice is 13 rather than ten.
         7. That Sheet SD-1.00 is modified to show that the number of required parking
            stalls is 194, and the number of existing parking stalls is 195.
         8. That any damage to landscaping resulting from construction will be repaired
            and/or replaced prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the new
            building.
         9. That after Planning Commission approval, the applicant submits six sets of plans
            to be stamped “Approved for Construction.” Three of these shall be 24 x 36 in
            size and three shall be 11 x 17. Each of these sets shall contain all sheets
            previously submitted for review stapled together. The applicant shall also submit
            a digital copy of the plans in pdf format.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of an Amended Site Plan
request are found in Sections 9-5-090(E) and (H) of the DCMC. These sections depict the
standard of review for such requests as:

9-5-090(E)
       1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development
           plan is approved.
       2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including
           but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping,
           and building materials.
       3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
           general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
       4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
           development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
       5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found
           in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water
           drainage, and utilities concerns.

9-5-090(H)



South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                  App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                      6
         1. Alteration or expansion of an approved site plan may be permitted by the
            Zoning Administrator upon making all of the following findings:
            a. The proposed use is consistent with uses permitted on the site;
            b. Existing uses were permitted when the site plan was approved, or have
                 received a conditional use permit;
            c. The proposed use and site will conform to applicable requirements of this
                 Code;
            d. The proposed expansion meets the approval standards of subsection E of
                 this section; and
            e. The site can accommodate any change in the number of people on the site
                 or any change in impact on surrounding infrastructure.
         2. If the Zoning Administrator cannot make all of the findings required in
            subsection H (1) above, the amended site plan may only be approved by the
            Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may only approve an amended
            site plan after a public hearing that complies with all requirements of this code,
            including section 9-5-045.

As the proposed site design would require approval of a deviation from the site design
standards of ordinance, the Zoning Administrator is not able make a finding that the
proposed use and site will conform to applicable requirements of the code.

The planning commission may approve deviations from the development standards listed
in DCMC Chapter 9-22 only if it finds, based upon the criteria stated in DCMC Subsection 9-
22-030(B), that the deviation is in the benefit of the health, safety and welfare of the city
and the project. To approve of a deviation the Planning Commission shall consider at least
three of the following criteria:

         1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
            excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
         2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
            area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
         3. The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to
            a transportation facility.
         4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as
            creative design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass
            programs.
         5. The project is an accredited LEED development.
         6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
            master plan or ordinance.
         7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases
            which involve redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor
            structures added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased
            project.



South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                  App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                      7
         8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten
             percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting
             beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
         9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
             modern, which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in
             subsection 9-22-040(F) of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.
         10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
             greater than the minimum required amount.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Amended Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Amended Site Plan submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Amended Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC and Simon
Associates LLC., in working with the Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, have
completed their reviews of the geotechnical and geologic hazards report submitted as a
part of the Amended Site Plan. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Amended
Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.




South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                 App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                      8
If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval specific to this application and in addition to the
previous conditions of approval issued August 23, 2018:

         1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
            Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
            and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2. That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
            development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
         3. That the architectural plan set be stamped and signed by the professional,
            licensed with the state of Utah, who prepared the drawings or is professionally
            responsible for the drawings content.
         4. That the building and site be constructed in substantial compliance with the
            plans submitted and approved as part of this amended site plan review, and in
            accordance with any approved deviations from standards.
         5. That no signage is approved with the site plan. All signage is required to meet
            the requirements of Chapter 9-26 and obtain applicable sign permits through
            the appropriate City process.

Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-22-050(A)(1) – Building Placement
The findings for approval of the deviation from DCMC section 9-22-050(A)(1) site design
standards to allow for a building that does not face the street are as follows: :

         1. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
            master plan or ordinance.
         2. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
            modern, which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in
            subsection 9-22-040(F) of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.
         3. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
            greater than the minimum required amount.

The findings for denial of the deviation from DCMC section 9-22-050(A)(1) site design
standards to allow for a building that does not face the street are as follows:

         1. The project does not meet a minimum of 3 of the required conditions listed in
            DCMC Section 9-22-030(B).



Amended Site Plan
The findings for approval of the amended site plan are as follows:

         1. The site plan amendment represents completion of the phased development
            plan for the overall site.



South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                 App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                      9
         2. The proposed site plan conforms to all applicable standards set forth in this title,
            including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
            landscaping, and building materials.
         3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
            general plan and the purpose of the CR zone.
         4. Public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
            development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
         5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found
            in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water
            drainage, and utilities concerns.

The findings for denial of the amended site plan are as follows:

         1. The proposed site plan does not conform to all applicable standards set forth in
            this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
            parking, landscaping, and building materials.
         2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives
            of the general plan and the purpose of the CR zone.



MODEL MOTIONS

Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-22-050(A)(1) – Building Placement
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation from building
orientation to the street, as requested by James Duffin, representing South Willow Business
Park, LLC and Thomas A. Duffin for the South Willow Pad Site – Java Express, application
SPR-1032-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated May 3, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation from building
orientation to the street, as requested by James Duffin, representing South Willow Business
Park, LLC and Thomas A. Duffin for the South Willow Pad Site – Java Express, application
SPR-1032-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated May 3, 2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation from building orientation to
the street, as requested by James Duffin, representing South Willow Business Park, LLC and
Thomas A. Duffin for the South Willow Pad Site – Java Express, application SPR-1032-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 3,
2021.




South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                    App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                       10
Amended Site Plan
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Amended Site Plan, as requested
by James Duffin, representing South Willow Business Park, LLC and Thomas A. Duffin for
the South Willow Pad Site – Java Express, application SPR-1032-2020, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 3, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Amended Site Plan, as
requested by James Duffin, representing South Willow Business Park, LLC and Thomas A.
Duffin for the South Willow Pad Site – Java Express, application SPR-1032-2020, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 3, 2021 and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Amended Site Plan, as requested by
James Duffin, representing South Willow Business Park, LLC and Thomas A. Duffin for the
South Willow Pad Site – Java Express, application SPR-1032-2020, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 3, 2021.




South Willow Pad Site – Java Express                                App. # SPR-1032-2020
Amended Site Plan Request                      11
                       DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                                                                                                    Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky

                       ·""""·� ""'°''
                                                                                                    DN: C,US,

 Brien Maxfield �.:::,:                                                     Jennifer Jastremsky 6;�������•�\::i��6'3:�;i�t�·
                       DigltallyslgnedbyB1lenMaxfleld
                                              0          00""'·


                       ema1l=br1en.maxfield@d1aperutah.gov,c=US
                       Date:2021.05.0409'37:37-06'00'
                                                                                                    CN:Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                    Date: 2021.05.04 09:22:04-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                         Draper City Planning Division



                                                                            M .I ke B ar ker
                             Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                        Digitally signed by Mike Barker

 Don B U C kl e Y
                             DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,
                             O,,Oraper City Fire Department, OU=Fire                                Date: 2021.05.040 9:49:18
                             Marshal, CN=Don Buckley                                                -06'00'
                             Detft' 2W1 05 94 1Q·3§·3B-06'PO'

Draper City Fire Department                                                 Draper City Legal Counsel



 Ke I'th c O11 I er
                             Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                             DN: C,US,
                   •         E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,
                             o�Draper City, OU-Building Official,
                             CN=Keith Collier
                             Date: 2021.05.05 06:25:30-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




South Willow Pad Site - Java Express                                                                 App. # SPR-1032-2020 �
Amended Site Plan Request                                              12
                                                                                                                                              �
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
       1.       No additional comments.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

       1.      No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
               twenty-four (24) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of
               thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be designed
               and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The
               surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
               have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a
               maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits
               being issued.

       2.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary
               Fire Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the
               Fire Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time
               during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department
               Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.

       3.      No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation
               and testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
               combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
4.   Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted
     to exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
     exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the
     top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General
     Contractor. See attached information form.

5.   2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
     serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to
     be located in a conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and
     immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or
     not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not
     more than five (5) feet above the floor.



6.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
     address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
     property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Consulting Engineers & Surveyors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12401 SOUTH 450 EAST BUILDING C, UNIT 2, DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PHONE: (801) 571-9414 FAX: (801) 571-9449
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ILSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20   0           20   40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALE IN FEET




                                                                                                                                                                                         12300 SOUTH STREET (DRAPER PARKWAY)


                                                       SAW CUT EXISTING ASPHALT

                                                                                                                 EXISTING CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                                                                 TO BE REMOVED                            PROJECT SITE LIMITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OFE IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LI CENS ED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           04/08/21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    No. 4939908-2202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      James J.
                                                                                                  Y




                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                  D
                                                                 EXISTING CURB AND GUTTER
                                                                 TO BE REMOVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Milligan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TA                                                       A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                         EXISTING PARKING            EXISTING CURB AND GUTTER                                                                                                                                              TE                   T
                                                                                  EXISTING FIRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OF U
                                                                                  HYDRANT TO BE                           STRIPING TO BE             TO BE REMOVED
                                                                                                                             REMOVED                                                               EXISTING PARKING
                                                                                  RELOCATED SEE                                                                                                     STRIPING TO BE
                                                                                  UTILITY PLAN                                                                                                         REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1" SCALE MEASURES 1" ON FULL SIZE SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING WATERLINE
                                                         PROJECT SITE LIMITS                                                                                           TO BE REMOVED
                                                                                                           EXISTING FIRE LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING CURB
                                                                                                           TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ADJUST FOR HALF SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                  TO BE REMOVED        EXISTING CURB
                                                                                                           AND DISPOSED OF
                                                                     EXISTING LIGHT POLE TO BE                                                                                                         TO BE REMOVED
                                                                     RELOCATED SEE SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING LIGHT POLE TO BE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                EXISTING FIRE LINE                                                     RELOCATED SEE SITE PLAN
                                                                 EXISTING CURB AND GUTTER                                       TO REMAIN IN PLACE
                                                                 TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                EXISTING PARKING                                BOX TO REMAIN AND
                                                                                                                                 STRIPING TO BE                                 ADJUST TO GRADE SEE
                                                                                                                                    REMOVED                                     GRADING PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                             SAW CUT EXISTING ASPHALT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REV DATE
                                                                                                          PROJECT SITE LIMITS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 APPROVED:
                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTING PARKING AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESIGNED/DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                           PROTECT IN PLACE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C.101 EXISTING SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAWING NAME:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             APRIL 2021


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    & DEMO PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHECKED:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JM/BP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DATE:
                                                                                                    EXISTING
                                                                                                  STONE HAVEN
                                                                                                     DENTAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH WILLOW RETAIL CENTER - JAVA EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING SITE & DEMO PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING PARKING AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                   Y D                        PROTECT IN PLACE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                   H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     191 WEST 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DISCLAIMER NOTE
BENCHMARK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REVISION:                                         -
QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 25, ON 265 WEST STREET
STAMPED 252B. AND THE SALT LAKE COUNTY BRASS CAP
WITNESS MONUMENT TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJ. #                        DUF.015
25, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE &
MERIDIAN AS SHOWN HEREON

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C.101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Consulting Engineers & Surveyors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12401 SOUTH 450 EAST BUILDING C, UNIT 2, DRAPER, UT 84020
                                             12300 SOUTH (PUBLIC STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHONE: (801) 571-9414 FAX: (801) 571-9449
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ILSON
S 89°47'19" E 113.40'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30   0           30   60
                                      S 84°06'01" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                      60.53'                          S 89°47'19" E 233.76'                                                                                                                                                   SCALE IN FEET




                                                                                                                                  S3
                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARKING CALCULATION




                                                                                                                                    9°0
                                                                                                                                     6'2
                                                                                                                                      2"
                 191 W 12300 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                           49
                                                                                                                                             .52
                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                S 00°27'45" E 81.30'




                                                                                                                                                                                  (125 WEST) (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                                              PARCEL NO. 27254510300000
                                                                                                                   0.809 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                     LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OFE IONAL
                                                                                                  EXISTING                                                                                                                                                                                                      PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LI CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              04/08/21
                                                                                                   PHASE 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            No. 4939908-2202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  James J.
                                                                                             153 W 12300 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                     Milligan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TA                                                                 A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TE                  T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF U




                                                                                                                                                                 S 09°36'5
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SITE TABULATION TABLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1" SCALE MEASURES 1" ON FULL SIZE SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                       9" E 86.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ADJUST FOR HALF SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                         66'
                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BY COMMENTS
                                                               S




                                                                   PARCEL NO. 27254510270000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REV DATE
                                                                         3.05 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   APPROVED:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DESIGNED/DRAWN BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWING NAME:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            APRIL 2021




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHECKED:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JM/BP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE:
                        EXISTING PHASE 1
                        177 W 12300 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH WILLOW RETAIL CENTER - JAVA EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OVERALL SITE PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        191 WEST 12300 SOUTH
                            EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                         DETENTION POND


                                                                                                                               PARCEL NO.27254760180000
                                                                                                                                    6.596 ACRES
                         PARCEL NO.27254510290000
                               4.30 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DISCLAIMER NOTE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REVISION:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJ. #                   DUF.015

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C.104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Consulting Engineers & Surveyors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12401 SOUTH 450 EAST BUILDING C, UNIT 2, DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PHONE: (801) 571-9414 FAX: (801) 571-9449
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ILSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10       0          10   20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE IN FEET




                                                                  3
                                                                                5'-0"
                                                         4
                                                                  8


                                                       11
                                 4                                                                                         20                                                                                                   20                                                                                               20

                                                                                       R9'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                   9
                                                                                                                                                11                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION KEY NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OFE IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1                                                                            PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LI CENS ED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                                                                                                    04/08/21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G I NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9                                                 12                                                                                                                                                 No. 4939908-2202
                                                                                                                                                         19
                                                                                       19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2                                                                             James J.
                                                                                                                                9                                      27'-0"                                                                                             R45'-0"                                                                                                                                              Milligan
                                                                                           19                                                                                                                                                                                                       R2'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TA                                                        A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                           18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TE                   T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3                                                                                                   OF U
                                                                                                                               25
                                                                                                                                                         19                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5                                             3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1" SCALE MEASURES 1" ON FULL SIZE SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11'-11"                                             6
                                                                                                                                            3                           4'-0"                                                                                                                        14
                                                                  8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ADJUST FOR HALF SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13
                                                                            12                                                                                                                                    R18'-0"                     12'-0"
                                               9                                                                                                                                                                                12                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                                               12                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                                          3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REVISIONS
                                                       5'-0"                                                                                                                                                           R3'-0"                                                           5'-0"                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R3'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BY COMMENTS
                                                                      22                                                                             1                                                                               1                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                 23
                                                                  24                                 3                                                                                                                                                                                 12
                                                                                                                                                              18'-0"                     24'-0"                          18'-0"                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                    22                                                                                                                                                                         21
                                                                  22                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REV DATE
                                                                                                         8                                                                                                    15
                                             25'-8"                         17                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                               11
                                                                                                                 22            24                             9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                15                                                                                                                    10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          APPROVED:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C.102 PROPOSED SITE &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HORIZONTAL CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-0"            13'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESIGNED/DRAWN BY:
                                  4                                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ---
                                                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                            21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWING NAME:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               APRIL 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6                          13
                                                                                       1        16                                   1                                                                                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                                                                          1                                               1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHECKED:
                                                                  12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JM/BP
                                                        5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROPOSED SITE & HORIZONTAL CONTROL
                                                                                                                      15                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14

                                                         R3'-0"                                                                          R3'-0" 12                  R3'-0"                                        R3'-0"             12       19                    19                              R5'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R3'-0"                 15
                                                                                                                                            1                                                         1
                                                                                                     2                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH WILLOW RETAIL CENTER - JAVA EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               17
                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                                                     24'-0"                                                                               9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              191 WEST 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                                             4                                                                                                6                                                            6                                                                   19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               21

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               23

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               24


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DISCLAIMER NOTE
BENCHMARK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REVISION:                                                 -
QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 25, ON 265 WEST STREET
STAMPED 252B. AND THE SALT LAKE COUNTY BRASS CAP
WITNESS MONUMENT TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJ. #                               DUF.015
25, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE &
MERIDIAN AS SHOWN HEREON

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C.102
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Consulting Engineers & Surveyors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12401 SOUTH 450 EAST BUILDING C, UNIT 2, DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PHONE: (801) 571-9414 FAX: (801) 571-9449
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ILSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10       0               10         20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCALE IN FEET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LANDSCAPE NOTES




                                                                                                                                         SP                            FV        FV      FV FV FV
                                                                                                                                               SP        SP
                                                                                                                                                                            FV                    BG
                                                                                                                                                    SP
                                                                                                                                                                                      FV   FV                  JH             JH
                                                                                                                                                                                                BG
                                                                                                                                                         SP
                                                                                                                                                              PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                       BG               BG
                                                                                                                                                                                PM                            BG              JH
                                                                                                                                                                                                RA
                                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                   M                                     RA                  RA
                                                                                                                                                                   M                   RA
                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                M                                  RA
                                                                                                                                                                                      M          RA
                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                     M          RC RC RC RC        RC   RC   RC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1" SCALE MEASURES 1" ON FULL SIZE SHEET
                                M M M M M                                                      HE
                                                                                                     HE        HE
                           BG
                                                                                          HE              HE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ADJUST FOR HALF SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                                     PB
                                                                                                    HE
                           BG                      BG                                     HE

                                                                                                          PB                   PB
                           BG                        BG                                        HE                    HS
                                                                                                                                    PB
                                                   BG                                     HE
                                                                                                HE              HS        HS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVISIONS
                                                                                                          HS
                           BG                                              PM                                        HS
                                                        BG                                HE         HS        HS
                                                                                                                               PB    PB
                                                   BG                                          HE
                                                                                                          HS
                           BG                                                                                                                                                                     RA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                              RC                                                               RA                 PB
                                                                                                                                              RC

                                                                                                                                              RC                                                 RW
                                                                                                                                              RC                                                   RW    PB
                                                                                                                                              RC                                                RW
                                                                                                                                                                                                     RW
                                                                                                                                              RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                  RW         PB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REV DATE
                                                                                                                                              RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                        PB
                                                                                                                                              RC                                                RW
                                                                                                                                                                                                   RW       PB                          CRUSHED STONE MULCH 3" DEPTH
                                                                                                                                              RC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                              RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ASPHALT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHRUBS/GROUND COVER
                     JH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 APPROVED:
                                                                                                                                              RC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESIGNED/DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                              RC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ---
                                                                                                                                              RC                                                 HE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         HE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BG             BG
                     JH                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LANDSCAPE FABRIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PLANTING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAWING NAME:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      APRIL 2021
                                                                                                                                              RC                                                               HE
                                                                                                                                                                                                       HE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BG
                                                                                                                                              RC                                                 HE
                     JH                                                                                                                                                                                                           JH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHECKED:
                                                                                                                                              RC                                                         HE        BG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JM/BP
                                            MR      MR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                  HE
                                                                                                                                              RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE:
                     JH                      MR
                                                                                                                                                                                                              HE                                        PREPARED SUBGRADE
                                            MR
                                                   MR   RW RW                                                                             RM
                                                                                                                                                                                                        HE                         JH                                                         CONCRETE CURB
                                                                     BG        BG                                                                                                                 HE               JH
                                                                                           BG BG BG                                 RM                                                                                                                                                        AND GUTTER
                      JH
                                                 RW RW RW       BG        BG                                                   BG         RM                                                            JH                   JH



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A        CRUSHED STONE MULTCH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH WILLOW RETAIL CENTER - JAVA EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PLANTING PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     191 WEST 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAPER, UTAH 84020
LANDSCAPE SCHEDULE                                                   LANDSCAPE SCHEDULE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DISCLAIMER NOTE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISION:                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJ. #               DUF.015

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L.101
                                                                                                                                                          IRR

                                                                                                                                                   POC
                                                                                                                                                                                             IRR


                                                                                                                                                                                       POC




                                DISCLAIMER NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10




                                                                                                                                                                    IRRIGATION NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRRIGATION LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20




                                                                                              DATE:                                       REVISIONS
                                                                                              APRIL 2021             REV DATE   BY COMMENTS
                                                           IRRIGATION PLAN
          PROJ. #




                                                                                              DRAWING NAME:
                    REVISION:




                                                                                              PLANTING PLAN
                                                  SOUTH WILLOW RETAIL CENTER - JAVA EXPRESS   SHRUBS/GROUND COVER                                                                                                                                  ILSON
                    -




                                                            191 WEST 12300 SOUTH              DESIGNED/DRAWN BY:                                                                                                                                   E NGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Consulting Engineers & Surveyors
                                                                                              JM/BP
L.102




                                                             DRAPER, UTAH 84020                                                                                                                                        12401 SOUTH 450 EAST BUILDING C, UNIT 2, DRAPER, UT 84020
        DUF.015




                                                                                              CHECKED:   APPROVED:   0              1" SCALE MEASURES 1" ON FULL SIZE SHEET                                            PHONE: (801) 571-9414 FAX: (801) 571-9449
                                                           SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                     ADJUST FOR HALF SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                                 ---        ---
             EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS, COLORS, AND MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           CMU WALL CAP


                                                        12'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                          (1) #5 REBAR -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CMU WALL CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                          GROUT SOLID                                                                                                   STRUCTURAL 'B' DECK FULLY
                                                    6" CONC. SLAB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WELDED TO TUBE FRAME,
                                                    OVER 4" GRAVEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1   PRIME AND PAINT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8"
                                                                                                                                                                                          (1) #5 REBAR (VERT.)                                                                                          COLOR: SLATE GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                          @ 32" O.C. - GROUT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12/03/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                   CMU WALL CAP           SOLID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                         8" CMU
                                                                                         WALL                                                                                                (1) #5 X CONT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8"
                       12'-0"




                                         SLOPE

                                                                                                                                  1                                                       ASPHALT PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6" CONC. SLAB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2'-0"
                                                                                                                                  SPLIT FACE CMU                                                                                                                            OVER 4" COMP.
                                                                                                                        PAINT TO MATCH BUILDING                                                                                                                             GRAVEL BASE
                                                                                                                                BUILDING ACCENT                                                                                                                             13x13-D5xD5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6'-0"
                                                                                                                              COLOR - SLATE GREY                                                                                                                            W.W.F.
                                                                        3
                                                                                                                               SMOOTH FACE CMU
                                                                       AS1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                  6'-0"
                                                                                                                        PAINT TO MATCH BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                             2'-0"
                                                                                                                                  BUILDING FIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REVISIONS
                                                                                                                           COLOR - VINTAGE GREY                                                                                                             (2) #5 BARS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                             1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (2) #5 REBAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CITY COMMENTS
                                      STEEL GATES
                                                                                         SLOPE CONC. PAD                                                                                                                  8"    8"     8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2) CANE BOLTS
                                                                                         AWAY AT 1/4"/FT. SEE
                                                         4                               CIVIL DWGS. FOR GRADES                                                                                                                2'-0"
                                                       AS1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRASH ENCLOSURE
                       TRASH ENCLOSURE PLAN                                                                                                        TRASH ENCLOSURE ELEVATION                             TRASH ENCLOSURE SECTION                                                                                      FRONT ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                     1 SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"                                                                                                  2      SCALE: 3/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                       3 SCALE: 1/2" = 1'-0"                                                                                     4 SCALE: 1/2" = 1'-0"




                                                                      C OF BOLLARD        PIPE SLEEVE HINGE
                                                                      L
             8" CMU, PAINT                                       3"
                                                                                          2 1/2" SQ.X3/16" THK. STL.
                                                                                          TUBE, PAINT
                                                                                                   1-3/8"




                                                                                          2 1/2"X2 1/2"X3/16" STL.
                                                                             2"    3"     ANGLE DIAG. BRACE
                                                                                          BEYOND
                                                                                  TYP.

        6" DIAMETER STEEL
                                                                      PLAN
        PIPE FILLED W/                                                                    22GA. CORR. GALV. SHT.
        CONCRETE EMBEDED                                                                  MET. SIDING, PAINT
        INTO CONCRETE
        FOOTING. PAINT
                                                                                           2 1/2" SQ.X3/16" THK. STL.
                                                                                           TUBE, PAINT


                                                                                          PIPE SLEEVE HINGE, PAINT


                                                                 ELEVATION




              GATE SUPPORTS
         5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JAVA ESPRESS
              SCALE: 1-1/2" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAWN BY: KW/JM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHECKED BY: RF,EA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JOB #        18117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE:   09/23/2020



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SITE DETAILS




THIS DRAWING CONTAINS INFORMATION WHICH IS THE PROPRIETARY PROPERTY OF ALC ARCHITECTURE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AS1.2
NO UNAUTHORIZED REUSE OR DUPLICATION OF THESE PLANS OR ANY INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN,
WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN CONSENT OF ALC ARCHITECTURE.
THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION UNTIL IT IS SIGNED BY THE ARCHITECT.
                                                                                                                                                           12/03/2020
                                                                                                                                               DATE



                                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                                    .

                                                                                                                                                                                          .

                                                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                               REVISIONS

                                                                                                                                                           CITY COMMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                                    .

                                                                                                                                                                                          .

                                                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                               NO.



                                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                                    .

                                                                                                                                                                                          .

                                                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                       SIGNAGE   SIGNAGE   SIGNAGE   SIGNAGE




                                                                                                                                                                           JAVA ESPRESS
                                                                                 EAST EXTERIOR ELEVATION
                                                                         1       SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                               DRAWN BY: KW/JM
                                                                                                                                               CHECKED BY: RF,EA
                                                                                                                                               JOB #        18117
                                                                                                                                               DATE:   09/23/2020

                                                                                                                                                            BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                           RENDERINGS




THIS DRAWING CONTAINS INFORMATION WHICH IS THE PROPRIETARY PROPERTY OF ALC ARCHITECTURE.
                                                                                                                                                RND-1
NO UNAUTHORIZED REUSE OR DUPLICATION OF THESE PLANS OR ANY INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN,
WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN CONSENT OF ALC ARCHITECTURE.
THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION UNTIL IT IS SIGNED BY THE ARCHITECT.
                                                                                                                                                                                          12/03/2020
                                                                                                                                                                              DATE



                                                                                                                                                                                                             .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                     1

                                                                                                                           SIGNAGE




                                                                                                                                                                                          CITY COMMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                             .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                              NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                                             .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                           SIGNAGE                                                        SIGNAGE

                                                                                                                                         MENU
                                                                                                               JAVA LOGO
                                                                            SIGNAGE        SIGNAGE   SIGNAGE                                    SIGNAGE   SIGNAGE   SIGNAGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                          JAVA ESPRESS
                                                      NORTH EXTERIOR ELEVATION
                                              1       SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWN BY: KW/JM
                                                                                                                                                                              CHECKED BY: RF,EA
                                                                                                                                                                              JOB #        18117
                                                                                                                                                                              DATE:   09/23/2020

                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                          RENDERING




THIS DRAWING CONTAINS INFORMATION WHICH IS THE PROPRIETARY PROPERTY OF ALC ARCHITECTURE.
                                                                                                                                                                               RND-2
NO UNAUTHORIZED REUSE OR DUPLICATION OF THESE PLANS OR ANY INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN,
WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN CONSENT OF ALC ARCHITECTURE.
THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION UNTIL IT IS SIGNED BY THE ARCHITECT.
                                                                                                                                     12/03/2020
                                                                                                                         DATE



                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                    .

                                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                         REVISIONS

                                                                                                                                     CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                           SIGNAGE




                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                    .

                                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                         NO.



                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                                                                                    .

                                                                                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                                          1


                                                                                                                                                     JAVA ESPRESS
                                                                                 WEST EXTERIOR ELEVATION
                                                                         1       SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                         DRAWN BY: KW/JM
                                                                                                                         CHECKED BY: RF,EA
                                                                                                                         JOB #        18117
                                                                                                                         DATE:   09/23/2020

                                                                                                                                      BUILDING
                                                                                                                                     RENDERINGS




THIS DRAWING CONTAINS INFORMATION WHICH IS THE PROPRIETARY PROPERTY OF ALC ARCHITECTURE.
                                                                                                                          RND-3
NO UNAUTHORIZED REUSE OR DUPLICATION OF THESE PLANS OR ANY INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN,
WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN CONSENT OF ALC ARCHITECTURE.
THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION UNTIL IT IS SIGNED BY THE ARCHITECT.
                                                                                                                                                             12/03/2020
                                                                                                                                                 DATE



                                                                                                                                                                                .

                                                                                                                                                                                      .

                                                                                                                                                                                            .

                                                                                                                                                                                                .

                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS

                                                                                                                                                             CITY COMMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                .

                                                                                                                                                                                      .

                                                                                                                                                                                            .

                                                                                                                                                                                                .

                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                 NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                .

                                                                                                                                                                                      .

                                                                                                                                                                                            .

                                                                                                                                                                                                .

                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                            MENU

                                                                                                  SIGNAGE          SIGNAGE   SIGNAGE   SIGNAGE




                                                                                                                                                                             JAVA ESPRESS
                                                                                 SOUTH EXTERIOR ELEVATION
                                                                         1       SCALE: 1/4" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                 DRAWN BY: KW/JM
                                                                                                                                                 CHECKED BY: RF,EA
                                                                                                                                                 JOB #        18117
                                                                                                                                                 DATE:   09/23/2020

                                                                                                                                                              BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                             ELEVATIONS




THIS DRAWING CONTAINS INFORMATION WHICH IS THE PROPRIETARY PROPERTY OF ALC ARCHITECTURE.
                                                                                                                                                             A3.1
NO UNAUTHORIZED REUSE OR DUPLICATION OF THESE PLANS OR ANY INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN,
WITHOUT THE EXPRESS WRITTEN CONSENT OF ALC ARCHITECTURE.
THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION UNTIL IT IS SIGNED BY THE ARCHITECT.
      EXHIBIT H
SITE LIGHTING PLAN
                                                                                            30          29          28          27          26          25                  24           23            22           21          20          19          18          17          16          15          14          13          12          11          10            9            8           7           6           5           4              3            2               1




                                                                                        A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOTES:                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BREINHOLT
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.01.     ILLUMINATION LEVELS INDICATED IN                        POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MATCH LINE                                                                    FOOT-CANDLES.                                           ENGINEERING                                                         PLLC




                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0 0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                              805 S 1430 W
                                                                                        B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.     INSTALLATION SHALL COMPLY WITH        B               LEHI, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE                             (801)367-5180
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                BPE#2109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DCMC0-22.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PRODUCT OF THE BREINHOLT POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENGINEERING, WHO HAS PROVIDED A PROFESSIONAL DESIGN AND
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.03.     PHOTOMETRIC STATISTICS:                 CONSULTATION SERVICE. THIS DOCUMENT INCLUDING ALL IDEAS
                                                                                        C



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                            S 89°47'19" E 113.40'
                                                                                                                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BUSINESS HOURS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OVERALL SITE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AND DESIGNS CANNOT BE DUPLICATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C ANY OTHER PARTY FOR THE PURPOSE OF PERMIT, BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSTALLATION FOR THIS OR ANY OTHER PROJECT WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION OF THE BREINHOLT POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENGINEERING. COPYRIGHT 2018 BREINHOLT POWER ENGINEERING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AVERAGE        0.7 FC

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    S 84°06'01" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAXIMUM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MINIMUM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.6 FC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0 FC
                                                                                        D



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.1       0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              60.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAX/MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AVE/MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F E S S I ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P RO               AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PAVED SURFACES:                                          D
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1       0.1       0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AVERAGE      0.9 FC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REG I S T E
                                                                                        E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I NE ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAXIMUM      8.0 FC
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1       0.1    0.2   0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1                      MINIMUM      0.0 FC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAX/MIN      -                                     TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TE            T          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AVE/MIN      -                                                   OF U
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2       0.2       0.3    0.3   0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2     0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
                                                                                        F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPERTY LINE:               F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KYLE BREINHOLT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AVERAGE     0.3 FC         LIC.: 9857303
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3       0.4       0.5    0.6   0.7    0.8    0.9    0.9   0.8   0.7   0.6   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.2     0.2   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2                      MAXIMUM     1.3 FC         EXP.: 31 MARCH 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MINIMUM     0.0 FC


                                                                                                                                                                                  191 W 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.4   0.7       0.9       1.0    1.3   1.5    1.7    1.9    2.0   1.9   1.6   1.3   0.9   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.5   0.4   0.3     0.3   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2                      MAX/MIN     -
                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AVE/MIN     -          G



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.7   1.4       2.0       2.1    2.7   3.1    3.6    4.0    4.6   4.3   3.6   2.9   1.7   0.9   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   1.0   1.1   1.1   0.9   0.8   0.6     0.4   0.3    0.3   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AFTER HOURS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OVERALL SITE:
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.5   1.0   2.4                                                   7.3   7.4   6.4   5.5   3.1   1.4   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.7   1.0   1.3   1.7   1.9   1.9   1.7   1.5   1.1     0.6   0.4    0.3   0.3   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5                    AVERAGE        0.4 FC
                                                                                        H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAXIMUM        8.2 FC
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.5   1.1   2.2                                                                     5.3   4.0   1.8   0.8   0.4   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.7   1.1   1.5   2.2   2.6   2.8   2.9   2.9   2.6   1.9     0.8   0.6    0.5   0.4   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5                    MINIMUM        0.0 FC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAX/MIN        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JAVA EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AVE/MIN        -
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.6   1.4   2.4                                                                     4.6   3.9   1.8   0.7   0.4   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.9   1.4   2.2   3.1   3.6   3.9   4.3   4.4   4.0   3.0     1.3   0.8    0.6   0.5   0.6   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.7   0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12300 SOUTH LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PAVED SURFACES:
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.4   0.8   1.8   3.8       0.0       0.0                                           0.0   5.2   3.9   1.7   0.7   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.9   1.7   2.7   3.9   4.2   4.3   5.2   5.5   5.2   4.3     1.9   1.1    0.8   0.7   0.6   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.8   1.1   1.5                      AVERAGE      0.3 FC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAXIMUM      3.6 FC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MINIMUM      0.0 FC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRAPER UT 84020
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.4   0.8   1.8   4.2       7.3       8.3    8.1   6.2    5.2    5.5                0.0   4.6   2.9   1.3   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.9   1.7   2.9   3.9   4.1   4.3   6.1   6.9   6.9   6.0     2.9   1.4    1.0   0.8   0.7   0.5   0.6   0.8   1.1   1.6   2.4   3.1
                                                                                        J                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAX/MIN      -         J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AVE/MIN      -
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.4   0.7   1.5   3.4       6.3       8.5    8.6   7.1    6.3    6.4    4.9   1.7   0.9   2.6   1.7   0.9   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.8   1.5   2.7   3.8   4.0   4.3   6.5   7.5   8.0   7.3     3.5   1.3    1.0   0.9   0.7   0.6   0.8   1.2   1.8   2.5   3.4   4.4                PROPERTY LINE:
                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AVERAGE     0.2 FC
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.6   1.1   2.5       4.6       6.2    6.3   5.4    5.0    4.7    3.5   1.8   1.4   1.2   0.8   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.8   1.5   2.7   3.8   3.9   4.3   6.5   7.6   8.0   7.45    3.2   1.4    1.0   0.9   0.7   0.7   0.9   1.3   2.1   2.8   3.5   4.3                      MAXIMUM     1.2 FC
                                                                                        K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MINIMUM     0.0 FC     K

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAX/MIN     -
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.8   1.4       2.3       3.0    3.1   2.8    2.6    2.3    1.7   1.2   0.8   0.6   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.9   1.7   2.9   3.9   4.0   4.3   6.2   7.0   7.0   6.2     3.1   1.5    1.0   0.9   0.8   0.7   1.0   1.4   2.1   2.9   3.4   4.0                      AVE/MIN     -

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.8       1.1       1.3    1.4   1.3    1.2    1.1    0.8   0.7   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.9   1.7   2.8   3.9   4.2   4.3   5.3   5.6   5.4   4.5     2.1   1.2    0.9   0.8   0.8   0.8   1.0   1.5   2.0   2.6   2.8   2.9 4     DEMOLISH EXISTING LIGHT POLE.
                                                                                        L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L
                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5   PROGRAM EXISTING RELOCATED
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.5       0.6       0.7    0.7   0.7    0.7    0.6    0.5   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.9   1.4   2.3   3.2   3.7   4.0   4.5   4.5   4.1   3.2     1.4   0.9    0.7   0.7   0.8   0.8   0.9   1.4   1.9   2.4   2.5   2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             POLE LIGHT (FUNCTION #15 OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING LITHONIA PIRH UNIT) TO
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4       0.4       0.5    0.5   0.5    0.5    0.4    0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.7   1.1   1.6   2.3   2.7   2.9   3.1   3.0   2.8   2.1     0.9   0.7    0.6   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.8   1.2   1.7   2.2   2.5   2.4       HAVE A HIGH-END TRIM OF 60% (6
                                                                                        M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VOLTS).
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4       0.4       0.4    0.5   0.5    0.4    0.4    0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.8   1.0   1.4   1.8   2.0   2.0   1.8   1.6   1.2     0.7   0.5    0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.9   1.3   1.7   1.9   1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6   AREA IS USED FOR DINING. IESNA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RECOMMENDS 15 FC FOR WORK
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4       0.5       0.5    0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.8   1.0   1.1   1.2   1.0   0.9   0.7     0.5   0.4    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.7   0.9   1.1   1.3   1.2       SPACES WHERE VISIAL TASKS ARE
                                                                                        N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ONLY OCCASIONALLY PERFORMED
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6       0.7       0.7    0.7   0.7    0.7    0.7    0.6   0.6   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.6   0.5   0.4     0.4   0.3    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7       (CATEGORY D) .

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.     POLE LIGHTS SHOWN ARE LITHONIA
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.4   0.5   0.7   0.8       0.9       0.9    0.9   0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9   0.8   0.7   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3     0.3   0.2    0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4
                                                                                        O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #KAX1 LED P4 40K R3 MVOLT SPA         O            VISUAL SCALE = 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PIRH DDBXD. SEE BUILDING PLANS                           TITLE BLOCK SEGMENTS EQUAL 1"
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.8   1.0       1.1       1.1    1.1   1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1   1.0   0.9   0.7   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2     0.2   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.2       FOR BUILDING MOUNTED FIXTURE                                 (MAY BE PHOTO REDUCED)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SPECIFICATIONS.                                                               REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MARK           DESCRIPTION                                               DATE

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.7   1.0   1.2       1.3       1.3    1.2   1.2    1.2    1.3    1.3   1.2   1.0   0.8   0.5   0.4   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2     0.1   0.1    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
                                                                                        P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1            --                                                     --/--/--

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.7   1.0   1.2       1.4       1.3    1.3   1.2    1.2    1.3    1.4   1.3   1.1   0.8   0.6   0.4   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2                                                                  --                                                     --/--/--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2

                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING LIGHT (TYPICAL)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3            --                                                     --/--/--
                                                                                        Q                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4            --                                                     --/--/--

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWING TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHEET NAME
FILE PATH: K:\+Projects\2021\Java Express BPE2109\ES101.dwg PLOT DATE: March 15, 2021




                                                                                        R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PHOTOMETRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN BY:                                CHECKED BY:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KLB                                         KLB
                                                                                        S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PERMIT RELEASE DATE:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FEBRUARY 19, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHEET RELEASE DATE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MATCH LINE                                                                                                                  FEBRUARY 19, 2021
                                                                                        T

                                                                                                                                                                                                             1 PHOTOMETRIC        SITE PLAN (BUSINESS HOURS)                                             N                                                                                         2 EXISTING/RELOCATED POLE SCALE: PHOTOGRAPH                                     T




                                                                                            30          29          28          27          26          25                  24           23            22
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALE: 1" = 10'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21          20          19          18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14          13          12          11          10            9            8           7           6           5           4              3            2               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EP101
                                                                                            30          29          28          27          26          25          24          23          22             21            20          19          18          17           16            15            14              13          12          11          10           9            8           7           6           5           4              3           2            1




                                                                                        A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOTES:                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BREINHOLT
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       1.   ILLUMINATION LEVELS INDICATED IN                        POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MATCH LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FOOT-CANDLES.                                           ENGINEERING                                                         PLLC




                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0 0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                   805 S 1430 W
                                                                                        B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.   INSTALLATION SHALL COMPLY WITH        B               LEHI, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE                             (801)367-5180
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            DCMC0-22.                                                BPE#2109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PRODUCT OF THE BREINHOLT POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENGINEERING, WHO HAS PROVIDED A PROFESSIONAL DESIGN AND
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       3.   AFTER HOURS LIGHT REDUCTION             CONSULTATION SERVICE. THIS DOCUMENT INCLUDING ALL IDEAS
                                                                                        C



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                            S 89°47'19" E 113.40'
                                                                                                                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ACCOMPLISHED BY PROGRAMMING ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JAVA EXPRESS BUILDING MOUNTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LIGHTS TO TURN OFF AS SPECIFIED IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AND DESIGNS CANNOT BE DUPLICATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C ANY OTHER PARTY FOR THE PURPOSE OF PERMIT, BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSTALLATION FOR THIS OR ANY OTHER PROJECT WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION OF THE BREINHOLT POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENGINEERING. COPYRIGHT 2018 BREINHOLT POWER ENGINEERING.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DCMC 9-22.
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 S 84°06'01" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0     0.0   0.0     0.0   0.1       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                        D



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0     0.1   0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                60.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.   EXISTING POLE LIGHTS ARE LITHONIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #KAX1 LED P4 40K R3 MVOLT SPA PIRH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DDBXD. SEE BUILDING PLANS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F E S S I ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING MOUNTED FIXTURE                                               P RO               AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.1     0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SPECIFICATIONS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REG I S T E
                                                                                        E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I NE ER
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       5.   ALL POLE LIGHTS HAVE AN OCCUPANCY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SENSOR (OPTION PIRH) TO COMPLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WITH DRAPER MUNICIPAL CODE 9-20-060                                    TE            T          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF U
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1            FOR SECURITY LIGHTING. ILLUMINATION
                                                                                        F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVELS INDICATED ON THIS AFTER            KYLE BREINHOLT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIC.: 9857303
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1     0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1       0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1            HOURS PHOTOMETRIC PLAN INDICATE           EXP.: 31 MARCH 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THE DIMMED ILLUMINATION WHEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MOTION HAS BEEN ABSENT. WHEN


                                                                                                                                                                          191 W 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1     0.1   0.1     0.1   0.2       0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2
                                                                                        G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MOTION IS PRESENT, ILLUMINATION       G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVELS WILL BE SIMILAR TO WHAT IS
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1     0.1   0.1     0.2   0.2       0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.3    0.2   0.2    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2            SHOWN ON SHEET EP101, THOUGH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVELS WILL BE DIMINISHED AS
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                          0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.2   0.3       0.4   0.6   0.7   0.9   0.8   0.8   0.7   0.5    0.3   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3            BUILDING MOUNTED LIGHTS NO LONGER
                                                                                        H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONTRIBUTE TO THE OVERALL             H

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ILLUMINATION.
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                              0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.3   0.5       0.7   1.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.3   1.1   0.9    0.4   0.3    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JAVA EXPRESS
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                              0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.4   0.6       1.0   1.4   1.6   1.7   1.9   1.9   1.8   1.3    0.6   0.4    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12300 SOUTH LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                           0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.4   0.7       1.2   1.7   1.9   1.9   2.3   2.4   2.3   1.9    0.9   0.5    0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRAPER UT 84020
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.4   0.8       1.3   1.7   1.8   1.9   2.7   3.0   3.1   2.7    1.3   0.6    0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.8   1.2   1.8
                                                                                        J                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0      0.1    0.1   0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.3   0.7       1.2   1.7   1.7   1.9   2.9   3.3   3.5   3.2    1.6   0.6    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.8   1.3   1.9   2.5

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1      0.1    0.1   0.1    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.3   0.7       1.2   1.7   1.7   1.9   2.9   3.3   3.6   3.3    1.5   0.6    0.5   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.6   0.9   1.5   2.1   2.6
                                                                                        K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1      0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.4   0.7       1.3   1.7   1.8   1.9   2.7   3.1   3.1   2.8    1.4   0.7    0.5   0.5   0.4   0.5   0.7   1.0   1.6   2.2   2.6

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1      0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.4   0.8       1.2   1.7   1.9   1.9   2.4   2.5   2.4   2.0    0.9   0.6    0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.7   1.1   1.5   1.9   2.1
                                                                                        L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1      0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.4   0.6       1.0   1.4   1.6   1.8   2.0   2.0   1.8   1.4    0.6   0.4    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   1.0   1.4   1.8   1.9

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2      0.2    0.2   0.2    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.3   0.5       0.7   1.0   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.4   1.2   0.9    0.5   0.4    0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.8   1.2   1.7   1.9
                                                                                        M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3      0.3    0.3   0.2    0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.2   0.3       0.5   0.6   0.8   0.9   0.9   0.8   0.7   0.6    0.3   0.3    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.9   1.3   1.4

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4      0.4    0.4   0.3    0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.2     0.2   0.2       0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.4   0.3    0.3   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.5   0.6   0.8   0.9
                                                                                        N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N



                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6      0.6    0.5   0.5    0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1     0.2   0.2       0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2    0.2   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.6   0.8   0.8   0.9   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8      0.8    0.8   0.6    0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1     0.1   0.2       0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3
                                                                                        O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O            VISUAL SCALE = 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TITLE BLOCK SEGMENTS EQUAL 1"
                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.8   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.0   1.0   1.1      1.1    1.0   0.8    0.6   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1       0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2                                                                         (MAY BE PHOTO REDUCED)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MARK           DESCRIPTION                                               DATE

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.7   0.9   1.2   1.3   1.3   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.3      1.3    1.2   1.0    0.7   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
                                                                                        P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1            --                                                     --/--/--

                                                                                            0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.7   1.0   1.2   1.3   1.3   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.3      1.3    1.2   1.0    0.8   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1                                                                       --                                                     --/--/--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3            --                                                     --/--/--
                                                                                        Q                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4            --                                                     --/--/--

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWING TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHEET NAME
FILE PATH: K:\+Projects\2021\Java Express BPE2109\ES102.dwg PLOT DATE: March 15, 2021




                                                                                        R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PHOTOMETRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN BY:                                CHECKED BY:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KLB                                         KLB
                                                                                        S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PERMIT RELEASE DATE:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FEBRUARY 19, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHEET RELEASE DATE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MATCH LINE                                                                                                                 FEBRUARY 19, 2021
                                                                                        T                                                                                                            PHOTOMETRIC SITE PLAN (AFTER HOURS)                                                                    N                                                                                                                                                                      T

                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 SCALE: 1" = 10'-0"
                                                                                            30          29          28          27          26          25          24          23          22             21            20          19          18          17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0     5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14              13          12          11          10           9            8           7           6           5           4              3           2            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EP102
                                                                                                   30               29               28               27               26               25               24               23                22               21               20               19               18               17               16               15               14               13               12               11               10               9               8               7               6                                5               4               3        2         1




                                                                                        A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BREINHOLT
                                                                                             0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2       0.2   0.3       0.3   0.3       0.4   0.4            0.4               0.3       0.3   0.3       0.3   0.2                                               POWER
                                                                                            MATCH LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENGINEERING                                                         PLLC




                                                                                             0.0 0.0          0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.3   0.3       0.3   0.4       0.5   0.5       0.6   0.6            0.6               0.6       0.5   0.4       0.4   0.3                                              805 S 1430 W
                                                                                        B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           B               LEHI, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (801)367-5180
                                                                                             0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.4       0.5   0.5       0.7   0.8       0.9   1.0            1.0               0.9       0.8   0.6       0.5   0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BPE#2109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PRODUCT OF THE BREINHOLT POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ENGINEERING, WHO HAS PROVIDED A PROFESSIONAL DESIGN AND
                                                                                             0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.5        0.5   0.6       0.7   0.8       1.0   1.2       1.4   1.5            1.5               1.3       1.1   0.9       0.7   0.6                               CONSULTATION SERVICE. THIS DOCUMENT INCLUDING ALL IDEAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AND DESIGNS CANNOT BE DUPLICATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART BY
                                                                                        C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C ANY OTHER PARTY FOR THE PURPOSE OF PERMIT, BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSTALLATION FOR THIS OR ANY OTHER PROJECT WITHOUT THE
                                                                                             0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.5        0.6   0.8       0.9   1.0       1.3   1.6       1.9   2.0            2.0               1.8       1.5   1.2       1.0   0.8                               WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION OF THE BREINHOLT POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ENGINEERING. COPYRIGHT 2018 BREINHOLT POWER ENGINEERING.




                                                                                             0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.1   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.3        0.3   0.4        0.4   0.5        0.6   0.8       1.0   1.2       1.5   1.8       2.0   2.3            2.3               2.0       1.7   1.4       1.1   0.9
                                                                                        D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D


                                                                                             0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1    0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   S 89°47'19" E 233.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.4        0.5   0.7       0.9   1.1       1.3   1.6       2.0   2.2            2.2               2.0       1.5   1.3       1.1   0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F E S S I ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P RO               AL
                                                                                             0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1    0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.4        0.4   0.5       0.6   0.8       0.8   1.3       2.1   2.3            2.3               1.9       1.2   0.9       0.8   0.6                                                         D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REG I S T E
                                                                                        E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I NE ER
                                                                                             0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1    0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.2        0.2   0.3        0.5   0.5        0.6   0.5        0.5   0.5        0.4   0.4        0.4   0.4        0.3   0.3        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.3       0.3   0.3       0.4   0.8       1.5   2.1            2.0               1.3       0.7   0.4       0.4   0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9° 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TE            T          A
                                                                                             0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1    0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.2   0.2        0.4   0.7        1.0   1.2        1.2   1.1        1.0   0.9        0.8   0.8        0.9   0.8        0.6   0.4        0.2   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1       0.1   0.3       0.6   1.0            0.9               0.5       0.2   0.1       0.1   0.1                                                                       OF U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6'2
                                                                                        F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KYLE BREINHOLT
                                                                                             0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.1    0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.2        0.2   0.3        0.6   1.2        2.3   2.7        2.6   2.4        2.2   1.7        1.4   1.7        1.9   1.8        1.3   0.6        0.3   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1            0.1               0.1       0.1   0.1       0.0   0.0                                 LIC.: 9857303




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXP.: 31 MARCH 2021




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                             0.3        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2    0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.3   0.4        0.9   1.9        3.8                                                      2.4        2.7   2.6        1.8   0.8        0.4   0.2        0.2   0.1        0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1       0.1   0.1            0.1               0.1       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                        G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             49
                                                                                             0.4        0.3   0.3        0.2   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3    0.3        0.3   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.3   0.5        1.0   2.2        3.9                                                                                                                    0.4   0.2        0.2   0.1       0.1   0.1       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .52
                                                                                             0.6        0.4   0.3        0.3   0.4        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.5        0.5   0.6        0.6   0.5        0.4    0.3        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.3   0.6        1.1   2.2        3.8                                                                                                                    0.7   0.5        0.3   0.2       0.1   0.1       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                        H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H


                                                                                             0.8        0.6   0.5        0.4   0.5        0.4   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.5        0.5   0.6        0.6   0.5        0.4    0.3        0.3   0.2        0.2   0.3        0.4   0.6        1.2   2.4        4.1                                                                                                                    1.8   1.3        0.7   0.3       0.2   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JAVA EXPRESS
                                                                                             1.3        0.8   0.6        0.5   0.6        0.5   0.4        0.4   0.4        0.5   0.7        0.8   0.7        0.7   0.7        0.6    0.4        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.7        1.3   3.0        5.7                                                                                                                    4.6   2.9        1.2   0.5       0.2   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12300 SOUTH LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I


                                                                                             1.9        1.1   0.8        0.7   0.6        0.5   0.5        0.5   0.6        0.8   1.1        1.5   1.2        1.4   1.2        0.8    0.6        0.4   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.7        1.5   3.5        7.6                                                                                                                    7.8   4.6        1.7   0.6       0.3   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 00°27'45" E 81.30'
                                                                                             2.9        1.4   1.0        0.8   0.7        0.5   0.6        0.8   1.1        1.6   2.4        3.1   3.6        3.4   2.6        1.8    1.2        0.8   0.5        0.4   0.3        0.4   0.8        1.5   3.6        7.6                                                                                                                    6.1   3.9        1.6   0.6       0.3   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER UT 84020
                                                                                        J                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J


                                                                                             3.5        1.3   1.0        0.9   0.7        0.6   0.8        1.2   1.8        2.5   3.4        4.4   4.9        4.7   3.9        2.8    2.1        1.3   0.8        0.5   0.4        0.5   0.8        1.5   3.4        6.6                                                                                                                    4.5   3.1        1.5   0.6       0.3   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0

                                                                                             3.2        1.4   1.0        0.9   0.7        0.7   0.9        1.3   2.1        2.8   3.5        4.3   4.6        4.5   3.9        3.0    2.4        1.5   0.9        0.6   0.4        0.5   0.8        1.6   3.6        7.5                                                                                                                    6.5   4.1        1.6   0.6       0.3   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                        K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST) (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                             3.1        1.5   1.0        0.9   0.8        0.7   1.0        1.4   2.1        2.9   3.4        4.0   4.3        4.2   3.7        3.1    2.5        1.6   1.1        0.6   0.5        0.6   0.8        1.5   3.6        8.2                                                                                                                    7.4   4.4        1.6   0.6       0.2   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0

                                                                                             2.1        1.2   0.9        0.8   0.8        0.8   1.0        1.5   2.0        2.6   2.8        2.9   2.9        2.9   2.9        2.7    2.3        1.6   1.1        0.7   0.5        0.6   0.8        1.4   2.9        6.0              EXISTING LIGHT (TYPICAL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL NO. 27254510300000                                                    3.9   2.6        1.1   0.5       0.2   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                        L


                                                                                             1.4        0.9   0.7        0.7   0.8        0.8   0.9        1.4   1.9        2.4   2.5        2.4   2.3        2.3   2.4        2.5    2.1        1.5   1.0        0.7   0.5        0.5   0.7        1.2   2.2        3.7                                            0.809 ACRES                                                             1.5   1.1        0.6   0.3       0.2   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                             0.9        0.7   0.6        0.5   0.6        0.6   0.8        1.2   1.7        2.2   2.5        2.4   2.4        2.4   2.5        2.4    1.9        1.3   0.8        0.6   0.5        0.5   0.7        1.2   2.3        3.7                                                                                                                    0.7   0.5        0.3   0.2       0.1   0.1       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                        M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M


                                                                                             0.7        0.5   0.5        0.5   0.5        0.5   0.6        0.9   1.3        1.7   1.9        1.9   1.9        1.9   2.0        1.8    1.4        1.0   0.6        0.4   0.4        0.5   0.8        1.3   2.6        4.4                                                                                                                    0.4   0.3        0.2   0.1       0.1   0.1       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0

                                                                                             0.5        0.4   0.4        0.4   0.4        0.5   0.5        0.7   0.9        1.1   1.3        1.2   1.2        1.2   1.3        1.2    1.0        0.7   0.5        0.4   0.4        0.5   0.8        1.4   2.9        4.9                                                                                                                    0.4   0.3        0.2   0.1       0.1   0.1       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                        N


                                                                                             0.4        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.4        0.5   0.6        0.7   0.7        0.7   0.6        0.7   0.7        0.7    0.6        0.5   0.4        0.4   0.4        0.5   0.8        1.4  EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.9        5.0                                                                                                                    0.4   0.3        0.2   0.1       0.1   0.1       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N




                                                                                             0.3        0.2   0.2        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.4        0.4   0.4        0.4   0.3        0.4   0.4        0.4    0.4        0.4   0.3        0.3   0.4        0.5   0.7        1.3   2.7        4.6                                                                                                                    0.7   0.5        0.3   0.2       0.1   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                        O


                                                                                             0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.3        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.3        0.3    0.3        0.3   0.3        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.7        1.3   PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.6        4.5                                                                                                                    1.6   1.1        0.6   0.3       0.2   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VISUAL SCALE = 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TITLE BLOCK SEGMENTS EQUAL 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (MAY BE PHOTO REDUCED)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DATE
                                                                                             0.1        0.1   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2    0.2        0.2   0.2        0.3   0.3        0.4   0.7        1.3   2.8        5.4                                                                                                                    4.0   2.6        1.1   0.5       0.2   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         --                                                     --/--/--


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    153 W 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                        P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                             0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.1        0.1   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2    0.2        0.2   0.2        0.2   0.3        0.4   0.7        1.4   3.3        7.2                                                                                                                    7.5   4.4        1.6   0.6       0.3   0.1       0.1   0.0       0.0   0.0            0.0               0.0       0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2            --                                                     --/--/--


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3            --                                                     --/--/--
                                                                                        Q                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Q



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4            --                                                     --/--/--

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAWING TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET NAME
FILE PATH: K:\+Projects\2021\Java Express BPE2109\ES101.dwg PLOT DATE: March 15, 2021




                                                                                        R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PHOTOMETRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S 09°36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAWN BY:                                CHECKED BY:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KLB                                         KLB
                                                                                        S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PERMIT RELEASE DATE:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FEBRUARY 19, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET RELEASE DATE:



                                                                                             MATCH LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FEBRUARY 19, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PHOTOMETRIC SITE PLAN (BUSINESS HOURS)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 SCALE: 1" = 10'-0"
                                                                                        T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T




                                                                                                   30               29               28               27               26               25               24               23                22               21               20               19               18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5'    10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15               14               13               12               11               10               9               8               7               6                                5               4               3        2         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EP103
                                                                                                30           29          28          27          26          25          24          23           22            21            20          19          18          17          16          15              14          13          12          11          10          9           8           7           6                            5           4           3       2         1




                                                                                        A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BREINHOLT
                                                                                        0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1   0.1      0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4        0.4               0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2                                           POWER
                                                                                              MATCH LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENGINEERING                                                         PLLC




                                                                                        0.0    0.0 0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1      0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.6        0.6               0.6   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.3                                          805 S 1430 W
                                                                                        B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B               LEHI, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (801)367-5180
                                                                                        0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1      0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.7   0.8   0.9   1.0        1.0               0.9   0.8   0.6   0.5   0.4                                            BPE#2109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PRODUCT OF THE BREINHOLT POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENGINEERING, WHO HAS PROVIDED A PROFESSIONAL DESIGN AND
                                                                                        0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1      0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.8   1.0   1.2   1.4   1.5        1.5               1.3   1.1   0.9   0.7   0.6                           CONSULTATION SERVICE. THIS DOCUMENT INCLUDING ALL IDEAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND DESIGNS CANNOT BE DUPLICATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART BY
                                                                                        C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C ANY OTHER PARTY FOR THE PURPOSE OF PERMIT, BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INSTALLATION FOR THIS OR ANY OTHER PROJECT WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION OF THE BREINHOLT POWER
                                                                                        0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.8   0.9   1.0   1.3   1.6   1.9   2.0        2.0               1.8   1.5   1.2   1.0   0.8                           ENGINEERING. COPYRIGHT 2018 BREINHOLT POWER ENGINEERING.




                                                                                        0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.2   0.2      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.8   1.0   1.2   1.5   1.8   2.0   2.3        2.3               2.0   1.7   1.4   1.1   0.9
                                                                                        D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D



                                                                                        0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   S 89°47'19" E 233.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2   0.2      0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.7   0.9   1.1   1.3   1.6   2.0   2.2        2.2               2.0   1.5   1.3   1.1   0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F E S S I ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P RO               AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                        0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    0.3   0.3      0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.8   0.8   1.3   2.1   2.3        2.3               1.9   1.2   0.9   0.8   0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REG I S T E
                                                                                        E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I NE ER
                                                                                        0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.5   0.5   0.5    0.4   0.4      0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.8   1.5   2.1        2.0               1.3   0.7   0.4   0.4   0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9° 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TE            T          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OF U
                                                                                        0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.4   0.6   1.0   1.2   1.2   1.1   1.0   0.9    0.8   0.8      0.9   0.8   0.6   0.4   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3   0.6   1.0        0.9               0.5   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6'2
                                                                                        F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KYLE BREINHOLT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIC.: 9857303
                                                                                        0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.6   1.2   2.3   2.7   2.6   2.4   2.2   1.7    1.4   1.7      1.9   1.8   1.3   0.6   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1        0.1               0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXP.: 31 MARCH 2021




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                        0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1     0.2   0.2   0.2   0.4   0.8   1.9   3.8                                        2.4      2.7   2.6   1.8   0.8   0.4   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1        0.1               0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                        G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   49
                                                                                        0.3    0.2   0.2    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2     0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   1.0   2.2   3.9                                                                                     0.4   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .52
                                                                                        0.5    0.3   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.3    0.3    0.2    0.2     0.2   0.2   0.3   0.5   1.1   2.2   3.7                                                                                     0.7   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                        H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H



                                                                                        0.9    0.4   0.3    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3    0.3    0.2    0.2     0.2   0.2   0.3   0.6   1.1   2.4   4.1                                                                                     1.8   1.3   0.7   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JAVA EXPRESS
                                                                                        1.3    0.6   0.4    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.4    0.3    0.3    0.2     0.2   0.3   0.4   0.6   1.3   2.9   5.7                                                                                     4.6   2.9   1.2   0.5   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12300 SOUTH LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



                                                                                        1.9    0.9   0.5    0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.8   1.1   0.9   1.1   0.9   0.6    0.4    0.3    0.3     0.3   0.3   0.4   0.7   1.5   3.5   7.6                                                                                     7.8   4.6   1.7   0.6   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 00°27'45" E 81.30'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAPER UT 84020
                                                                                        2.7    1.3   0.6    0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.8   1.2   1.8   2.3   2.7   2.5   1.9   1.4    0.9    0.6    0.4     0.3   0.3   0.4   0.7   1.5   3.6   7.5                                                                                     6.1   3.9   1.6   0.6   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                        J                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J



                                                                                        3.2    1.6   0.6    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.8   1.3   1.9   2.5   3.3   3.6   3.5   2.9   2.1    1.6    1.0    0.6     0.4   0.3   0.4   0.7   1.5   3.4   6.6                                                                                     4.5   3.1   1.5   0.6   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0

                                                                                        3.3    1.5   0.6    0.5   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.6   0.9   1.5   2.1   2.6   3.2   3.4   3.4   2.9   2.3    1.8    1.1    0.7     0.4   0.4   0.5   0.8   1.6   3.6   7.5                                                                                     6.5   4.1   1.6   0.6   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                        K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ST) (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                        2.8    1.4   0.7    0.5   0.5   0.4   0.5   0.7   1.0   1.6   2.2   2.6   3.0   3.2   3.1   2.8   2.3    1.9    1.2    0.8     0.5   0.4   0.5   0.8   1.5   3.6   8.2                                                                                     7.4   4.4   1.6   0.6   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0

                                                                                        2.0    0.9   0.6    0.4   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.7   1.1   1.5   1.9   2.1   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.0    1.7    1.2    0.8     0.5   0.5   0.5   0.7   1.4   2.9   5.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL NO. 27254510300000                           3.9   2.6   1.1   0.5   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.809 ACRES
                                                                                        L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L



                                                                                        1.4    0.6   0.4    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   1.0   1.4   1.8   1.9   1.8   1.7   1.8   1.8   1.9    1.6    1.1    0.8     0.5   0.4   0.5   0.7   1.2   2.2   3.7                                                                                     1.5   1.1   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                        0.9    0.5   0.4    0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.8   1.2   1.7   1.9   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.9   1.8    1.4    1.0    0.6     0.5   0.4   0.5   0.7   1.2   2.2   3.7                                                                                     0.7   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                        M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M



                                                                                        0.6    0.3   0.3    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.9   1.3   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.5   1.4    1.1    0.8    0.5     0.4   0.4   0.5   0.7   1.3   2.5   4.3                                                                                     0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0

                                                                                        0.3    0.3   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.5   0.6   0.8   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   1.0   0.9    0.7    0.5    0.4     0.3   0.4   0.5   0.7   1.4   2.8   4.9                                                                                     0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                        N



                                                                                        0.2    0.2   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.5    0.5    0.4    0.3     0.3   0.4   0.5   0.7   1.4  EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.9   5.0                                                                                     0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N




                                                                                        0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3     0.3   0.3   0.4   0.7   1.3   2.7   4.6                                                                                     0.7   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                        O



                                                                                        0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2     0.2   0.3   0.4   0.7   1.3   PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.6   4.5                                                                                     1.6   1.1   0.6   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VISUAL SCALE = 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TITLE BLOCK SEGMENTS EQUAL 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (MAY BE PHOTO REDUCED)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE

                                                                                        0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2     0.2   0.3   0.4   0.7   1.3   2.8   5.4                                                                                     4.0   2.6   1.1   0.5   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                        P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1            --                                                     --/--/--

                                                                                        0.1


                                                                                        Q
                                                                                               0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2     0.2   0.3   0.4   0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               153 W 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.4   3.3   7.2                                                                                     7.5   4.4   1.6   0.6   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               --


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      --/--/--


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      --/--/--


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4            --                                                     --/--/--

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWING TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET NAME
FILE PATH: K:\+Projects\2021\Java Express BPE2109\ES102.dwg PLOT DATE: March 15, 2021




                                                                                        R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHOTOMETRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S 09°36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWN BY:                                CHECKED BY:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KLB                                         KLB
                                                                                        S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PERMIT RELEASE DATE:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FEBRUARY 19, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET RELEASE DATE:




                                                                                               MATCH LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FEBRUARY 19, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHOTOMETRIC SITE PLAN (AFTER HOURS)                                                                N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       59
                                                                                        T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T

                                                                                                                                                                                                1 SCALE: 1" = 10'-0"
                                                                                                30           29          28          27          26          25          24          23           22            21            20          19          18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5'    10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15              14          13          12          11          10          9           8           7           6                            5           4           3       2         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EP104
        EXHIBIT I
DEVIATION REQUEST LETTER
December 16, 2020
City of Draper
Community Development Department
1020 East Pioneer Road
Draper, UT
Phone: (801) 576-6399
RE:        SPR-1032-2020_South Willow Pad Site – Java Espress
Todd Draper,

This letter is in response to the City of Draper Architectural Comments on the above-mentioned permit
application for the building of Java Espress in Draper, Utah AND a request to deviate from Draper City Municipal
Code. The item in which we would like to deviate from the code pertains to the main entrance facing away from
the street (DCMC 9-22-050 (A)). For purposes of explanation we have divided the deviation criteria (9-22-030 (B))
between ALC and Gilson Engineering per our required fields. Brandon from Gilson will provide responses for
criterion 1-8 and we will respond pertaining to criterion 9-10. See below:

      9.   “The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which utilizes
           facade materials differently than prescribed in subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter and is designed by a
           licensed architect.”
                a. Response: The building is a specific architectural style. It is a modern twist on a drive through
                    eatery or quick service restaurant venue. The building is very small but has great efficiency. The
                    exterior design includes accent awning and a covered patio with slanted roof connecting to an
                    exterior wall. This wall then opens up to a less enclosed area with tube steel slats that allow
                    light to pass through but still provide privacy. Tube steel is also used in other locations as a
                    ‘second façade’ and at the top of the building. These elements are combined with the color of
                    the signage and lighting to create a great look that is branded for all of Java Espress’
                    customers.
      10. “The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than the
          minimum required amount.”
              a. Response: The building is comprised of 100 % primary materials on all but the west elevation.
                 These finishes include: stone, simulated wood ‘look alike’ concrete fiber composite siding, &
                 metal composite material. The west elevation contains a PBR panel on an exterior wall which is
                 secondary and comprises of 25% of the façade. In addition, more than (2) two primary
                 materials are on each façade as noted in the DCMC.
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us.

Sincerely,




Robert Fehrenbacker
Project Manager
ALC Architecture
1119 E State St, #120
Eagle, ID 83616
(208) 514-2713


                                1119 E State St, #120 • Eagle, ID 83616 • (208) 514-2713
