            Ques%ons for the TRSSD applicants


1. Please describe a .me where you have worked coopera.vely in
   an adversarial environment and obtained a mutually beneﬁcial
   agreement for both par.es.
  Answer: As part of my professional responsibili.es, I regularly
  work with and handle situa.ons where the interests of my
  company and the interests of another party are adverse or
  misaligned. Most recently, we worked out a resolu.on to a
  dispute over charges and fees for drilling services our company
  rendered for a global mining company. The disputed amounts
  were in the millions of dollars.
  We reached a consensus only aDer both par.es were willing to
  compromise by acknowledging and accep.ng responsibility for
  their own missteps and errors following an exchange of clear
  and transparent informa.on about miscalcula.ons and
  mispercep.ons caused by miscommunica.on. By doing this we
  preserved a valued and valuable commercial rela.onship that
  spans many years, and set the foo.ngs for a beGer rela.onship
  going forward.


2. How has your prior experience, work or educa.on prepared
   you to serve on the TRSSD? - could be accoun.ng knowledge,
   leadership training, or experience with engineering or
   infrastructure.
  Answer: At work, I am the legal counsel for the company’s
  opera.ons in the USA. I manage and work with a team of
  professionals on legal maGers aﬀec.ng the business. I have to
  manage a budget for our department and work with others to
  protect company interests and property, and also resolve
  disputes when they arise.
  As part of my civic par.cipa.on, I was appointed by then-Gov.
  Herbert to a judicial nomina.ng commission, tasked with
  reviewing and recommending lawyers to be appointed as
  district court judges. I was appointed by the Chief Jus.ce of the
  Utah Supreme Court to be a member of the Supreme Court’s
  CommiGee on the Rules of Professional Conduct. I was
  appointed by the Supreme Court to be the Chair of that
  CommiGee. Those rules govern the professional conduct and
  ethical prac.ces of aGorneys licensed to prac.ce law in Utah,
  and as Chair I work with a diverse group of accomplished and
  talented lawyers, with varying opinions consistent with their
  diverse backgrounds and experiences.


3. Why do you want to be involved on the TRSSD, and what do
   you hope to accomplish?
  Answer: I care deeply about my community because I love
  where I live, having been here 17 years. I also care deeply
  about local government because it has the most impacXul
  inﬂuence on our daily lives. What I hope to accomplish, and feel
  capable of contribu.ng, is a voice of reason and ra.onality to
  the interac.ons and communica.ons between the City and the
  taxpayers of the TRSSD. I come with no plaXorm and do not
  bring an agenda. I simply want to see the TRSSD and the City
  func.on as required, and to see taxpayer resources used
  eﬃciently and conserva.vely.
4. What do you see as the best prac.ces on how to build and
   maintain transparency within the board to the members of the
   District and the City?
  Answer: Obviously, adherence to the public mee.ng laws is
  crucial. Also, regular mee.ngs (at least quarterly) and published
  minutes would improve communica.ons within the board, to
  the taxpayers, and with the City. It would also be helpful to the
  TRSSD and its Board to have a city staﬀer assigned as a liaison
  to provide needed informa.on and dialogue concerning
  TRSSD’s share of costs.


5. What have you done as Treasurer to make sure the proper
   ﬁnancial reports are ﬁled? How are monthly and quarterly
   ﬁnancials being prepared and disseminated to the board,
   members of the TRSSD and the City?
  Answer: My appointment as treasurer late in June 2020 has
  been diﬃcult, .me-consuming, and a valuable learning
  experience. It is s.ll a work in progress and I have areas and
  topics that s.ll need improvement. Although I am not trained
  as an accountant, I believe I am capable of fulﬁlling the
  responsibili.es as treasurer, but will undoubtedly need some
  support. To that end, I have been oﬀered the assistance of a
  re.red professional in our community. Currently, I endeavor to
  comply with the statutory and legal repor.ng requirements of
  the TRSSD. If re-appointed I will make it a point of sharing those
  reports at the regular board mee.ngs.
6. What speciﬁc steps have been taken to address the
   deﬁciencies, as outlined in the annual state audit?
  Answer: My goal has been to resolve all of the deﬁciencies
  men.oned in the annual audit. Speciﬁcally, I have made a
  substan.al eﬀort to formulate a budget for TRSSD that will
  more accurately reﬂect the an.cipated expenses for the
  current ﬁscal year. I have also worked closely with TRSSD’s
  auditor to resolve any accoun.ng deﬁciencies. I have also tried,
  and con.nue to try, to get the banking rela.onship updated. To
  my dismay and surprise, it is not as easy as I originally thought.
  The updates with the bank go a long ways to make sure
  repor.ng requirements are submiGed .mely and accurately.
  Many of the deﬁciencies outlined in the audit are carryover
  from prior years and relate to the costs of services, par.cularly
  snow plowing, that are diﬃcult to predict from a budget
  standpoint and diﬃcult to ascertain from an accoun.ng and
  repor.ng standpoint. Hence, the budget deﬁcits in some areas
  and the overages in expenditures for services. Nevertheless, my
  objec.ve has been, and will con.nue to be, to forecast as
  accurately as possible and report these expenses. On this point,
  an assigned city staﬀer men.oned above would be very helpful.
  Other deﬁciencies simply need to be remedied, such as board
  members taking the required training about board governance,
  conﬂicts of interest, Open Mee.ngs law requirements, etc.
