Draft minutes June 10, 2021
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ELECTRONIC
MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY, JUNE 10, 2021 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL
CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING
ELECTRONICALLY:         Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker, Commissioners Gary Ogden, Mary
                        Squire, Lisa Fowler and Alternate Commissioner Susan Nixon and
                        DeLaina Tonks

ABSENT:                 Chairperson Andrew Adams, Commissioner John Van Hoff, Alternate
                        Commissioner Tab Bingham

STAFF PRESENT:           Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Jennifer Jastremsky, Travis Van
                         Ekelenburg and Amie Salazar

STAFF PRESENT
ELECTRONICALLY:          None




The Agenda will be as follows:

6:30 PM Business Meeting

1. Ways of Participation
   • Attend the meeting in person at 1020 East Pioneer Road
   • Listen through our website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
   • Attend the meeting by Zoom. You may request the Zoom Meeting ID by sending an email
     to the planner listed on the agenda item below by noon, on the day of the meeting.

2. Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for May 27, 2021
   (Administrative Action)

      Motion re: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks made a motion to approve the Planning
      Commission meeting minutes for May 27, 2021 and Commissioner Squire seconded the
      motion.

      Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
      motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

3. Public Hearing: Olson Residence Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action)
   This agenda item is continued to a future meeting date.
      On request by Jarod Hall for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment in the RA1 zone
      regarding a rezone on the property from the RA1 zoning designation to the RA2 zoning
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 10, 2021
Page 2
       designation. The applicant would like to create a 20,000 ft² lot for the existing home. The
       property is located at 13764 South and 13770 South Fort St. Application #: TEXTMAP-
       0062-2021.       Staff    Contact:    Travis      Van      Ekelenburg,        801-576-6522,
       travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov.

4. Public Hearing: Lot 14 Alan Point Plat Amendment (Administrative Action)
      On request by Kirk Cullimore a request for approval of a Plat Amendment in the RA2 zone
      to vacate a wetlands no build area in the rear yard of 849 West Alan Point Dr. Application:
      SUBD-0055-2021. Staff Contact is Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522,
      travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov.

       Travis Van Ekelenburg, City Planner, presented. He stated that, in order to vacate the no
       build area, the applicant needs to amend the subdivision plat. The application included a
       letter from the Army Corp of Engineers stating the no build area did not contain wetlands.
       He stated that the applicant has submitted a preliminary version of the amended plat. He
       stated that any issues will be resolved before any signing or recording is done.

       Commissioner Fowler inquired about the word vacate and whether that means they are
       going to build on the plat.

       Mr. Van Ekelenburg stated that they’ve vacated the wetlands portion of the plat, which
       would allow them to build there.

       Kirk Cullimore, applicant, presented. He stated that they’ve been working on this for a
       while. He stated that the restriction was due to the wetlands being wet. He stated that they
       would like to get that removed and get the plat amended to improve the conditions of the
       house and follow suit with the other owners on the street who have removed their wetlands
       in order to build on the lot.

       Vice Chairperson Hawker asked if there were any questions.

       Vice Chairperson Hawker opened the public comment.

       Connie Stromberg asked whether the space was going to be used as an Airbnb.

       Vice Chairperson Hawker closed the public comment.

       Vice Chairperson Hawker asked the applicant to address the comment made.

       Mr. Cullimore, applicant, stated that this is a single-family home. There are no plans to rent
       or do an Airbnb.

       Motion re: Commissioner Squire made a motion to approve the Plat Amendment as
       requested by Kirk Cullimore for application SUBD-0055-2021 based on the findings and
       subject to the conditions listed within the staff report dated June 1, 2021. Commissioner
       Ogden seconded the motion.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 10, 2021
Page 3

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
       motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

5. Training: General Powers and Duties
      Mike Barker presented. He stated that the Land Use Academy of Utah (LUAU) has helped
      to put together this training. He stated that they’re going to start with the basics, and asked
      what planning is.

       Commissioner Fowler stated that planning is thinking ahead.

       Mr. Barker agreed. He illustrated the history of planning in Utah. He asked what planning
       documents are used to help with planning activities.

       Commissioner Nixon answered that they use the general plan, which helps determine what
       the city will look like in 10 or 20 years.

       Mr. Barker agreed. He stated that the zoning ordinance implements the principles of the
       general plan. He stated that state statutes require all cities to have a general plan. He stated
       that it can be permissive, but certain things must be included, such as: moderate income
       housing plan, transportation plan, and land use element. He stated that a new plan was
       adopted in Draper in 2019. He reminded them that the general plan is an advisory
       document.

       Vice Chairperson Hawker inquired about churches and schools being put anywhere in the
       city.

       Mr. Barker stated that prisons would also likely be included in that. He stated that military
       and government buildings are also included. He stated that this is probably the same in
       other states, not just Utah.

       Mr. Barker presented a video.

       Mr. Barker stated that LUDMA is the governing law at the state level. He stated that
       LUDMA balance individual property rights and the community.

       Mr. Barker presented another video.

       Commissioner Squire asked whether there’s a distinguishable difference between taking
       someone’s property rights and not granting them new rights.

       Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator, provided clarification
       of takings and rezones.

       Mr. Barker stated that the most important thing is to learn the law and follow it. He defined
       the plain language rule.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 10, 2021
Page 4

      Vice Chairperson Hawker asked about places with more lenient zonings.

      Ms. Jastremsky stated that there are places that are stricter than others. She gave examples
      of lenient zoning from Houston and form based codes.

      Mr. Barker stated that every city needs a general plan and a zoning code. He stated that, if
      there’s no zoning code, then there needs to be a process in place to adopt one. He stated
      that zoning is one of the main ways the vision of the general plan is implemented.

      Mr. Barker presented a short clip.

      Mr. Barker stated that the land use authorities in Draper consist of the Planning
      Commission, City Council, and the Zoning Administrative Officer.

      Mr. Barker presented another short clip.

      Mr. Barker stated that the Appeals and Variants Officer is independent. He answered some
      questions regarding the Appeals and Variants Officer. He stated that the Appeals body is
      very broad; it can range from a single officer to a board. He clarified the permissions and
      responsibilities of the Appeals Officer.

      Mr. Barker presented another short clip.

      Mr. Barker defined an administrative decision appeal as well as a variance.

      Ms. Jastremsky gave an example of a variance in Draper. She stated that a good way to
      differentiate is whether it’s a need or a want.

      Mr. Barker stated that there are five points that need to be met for a variance.

      Ms. Jastremsky clarified the difference between a variance and a deviation.

6. Adjournment
      Commissioner Squire motioned for adjournment, all were in favor. Vote is 5-0

      The meeting adjourned at 7:31 pm
