      Questions for the TRSSD applicants – Jeff Jones


1. Please describe a time where you have worked cooperatively in
   an adversarial environment and obtained a mutually beneficial
   agreement for both parties.
      a. I participated with the Save The Hollows initiative several
         years ago to help encourage Draper City to put the
         recently purchased Suncrest development under
         preservation as publicly promised. While it was
         contentious at times, we were able to open
         communications to better understand the opposing
         concerns and how a win/win outcome could still be
         achieved. This experience is very relevant to the situation
         that exists today. Within this small community group, I
         was able to assist in shaping public opinion and getting
         buy-in that we could find a way to come to a compromise
         for both parties. Our community and city showed then we
         were able to find common ground that allowed the city to
         surplus properties needed to pay off the bond before a
         larger payment burdened the city’s future budget while
         the Mayor was able to find a way to put the bulk of the
         land into a preserve by partnering with Salt Lake County.
         We need to find a way to be more transparent, trusting
         and open to finding common ground again. I believe I can
         help these parties work towards this common goal if a
         court ruling does not.

2. How has your prior experience, work or education prepared
   you to serve on the TRSSD? - could be accounting knowledge,
  leadership training, or experience with engineering or
  infrastructure.
     a. In addition to the above relevant community experience,
        my work experience in software development and sales
        has put me in an interesting role that is constantly
        triaging problems between cross-functional teams that
        have competing goals. I’ve led internal teams to put
        siloed goals aside to make sure we’re focusing on what
        will bring both clients and internal teams an outcome that
        will benefit the greater common goal. I’ve also often
        served as a “fire fighter” for the companies I’ve worked
        for to help turnaround troubled accounts where
        customers are not happy or on the brink of walking away
        or seeking legal alternatives for resolution. My ability and
        experience in finding a way to de-escalate these heated
        situations and find common ground solutions has
        equipped me with the skills to help apply these
        capabilities to all types of disputes – and it may come in
        handy for this particular case.

3. Why do you want to be involved on the TRSSD, and what do
   you hope to accomplish?
     a. The inability to reach a compromise and set a fair budget
        frustrates me. It has continued to unnecessarily drive a
        bigger wedge between the district and the city I reside in
        and is not something I feel comfortable leaving unsolved
        for both myself and future, unsuspecting neighbors. I’ve
        often been vocal about this frustration. I’m not a believer
        in voicing an opinion or making a change merely from
        shouting from the sidelines. I want to assist in putting the
        major concerns behind us and drive consensus on what a
        reasonable solution moving forward would look like. It is
        more than obvious that what we have been doing has not
        been working and must change. I’m a solutions architect
        by trade and I’m relentless in my pursuit to drive to a
        resolution once I’ve been put on a problem.

4. What do you see as the best practices on how to build and
   maintain transparency within the board to the members of the
   District and the City?
      a. This is a longer conversation that I would have enjoyed
         having as part of the live interview process. I have a few
         ideas to consider, but I don’t believe having one side or
         person dictate what is best ignores the fact that this must
         be a collaborative effort. I would suggest that the TRSSD
         Board be elected. (like almost every other special district)
         by the taxpayers it represents if the city is truly concerned
         about increasing transparency and fostering trust. I’d
         recommend that a council member be officially assigned
         to the board like every other city committee and that
         goals are collectively set between the Board and council
         member and then declared and tracked publicly. I’d
         suggest this council member and/or mayor publicly take
         ownership to find a resolution that has the best interest
         of the entire city without fear of the potential political
         repercussions. The city council should listen to the district
         residents when concerns about appointed/nominated
         board members are expressed and take them seriously to
         foster trust. The board should hold regular meetings and
         seek to educate district members as opposed to trying to
operate under the radar as much as possible which has
often been a concern in the past. The board should create
a communications role that proactively engages with
both the city and the district members to advance
transparency and clarity with regard to the budget and
current projects. Lastly, the members of the board should
not have any closed-door meetings with the mayor or city
council members. I’m sure there are many suggestions
the city and others in the community could add to this list
of best practices and having a member of the board
proactively communicate with both the city and district
members would only foster stronger trust and
transparency. I’d be happy to drive that communication
and transparency if selected to represent the district.
