Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: April 6, 2021
Re: City Initiated Hedgerow Text Amendment Request Comments: This City initiated application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of amending regulations pertaining to the use of hedgerows and other landscaping elements within land use buffers.
The Planning Commission heard this item at their March 25, 2021 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on the application  to the City Council    on a 5-0 vote.  The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For Denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1485 3/31/2021 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 3/29/2021 Cover Memo