Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: December 16, 2021
Re: Kum & Go #2500 Plat Amendment and Site Plan Requests Comments: This application is a request for approval of a text amendment for approximately 2.38 acres located on the east side of 200 West, at approximately 13639 S. and 13691 S. 200 West.  The property is currently zoned CSD-136C .  The subject properties are currently undeveloped and front onto 200 West and Bangerter Highway.
In November, 2021 a zoning text amendment was approved for the site.  The proposed changes to the CSD-136C text clarified appropriate development standards for gasoline service stations with the zoning designation.  The text amendment also relocated an approved pylon sign from the I-15 frontage to the Bangerter Highway frontage.  City Council did reduce the height of the sign and the overall square footage of the sign than previously proposed by the applicant. The findings are as follows: Site Plan
For approval:
1.  The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
2.  A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials
3.  The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.  The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.  The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
Plat Amendment
For approval:
1.  There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 12/8/2021 Backup Material