                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          June 11, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: June 24, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Communication Journeys – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-0071-2021
        Applicant:        Stephanie Fowler, representing Communication Journeys LLC
        Project Location: 13132 South Levoy Circle
        Current Zoning: R3 (Residential, 13,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.3 Acres (Approximately 13,068 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the R3 zone regarding an in-home speech therapy
                          office.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.3 acres located on the southwest corner of the intersection of Carlquist
Drive and Levoy Circle, at approximately 13132 South Levoy Circle (Exhibit B). The property
is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use
be approved to allow for a Personal Instruction Service providing in-home speech therapy
at the home.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Medium
Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:



Communication Journeys                                              App. #USE-0071-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          1
The property has been assigned the R3 zoning classification, supporting approximately
three (3) dwelling units per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code
(DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3 zone is to “permit medium density residential
development without special mitigation requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives
to foster residential development with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal
services, and to generally preserve the semirural character called for in the density element of
the general plan.” The R3 zoning abuts the subject property on all sides of the property.

Home Occupation. The applicant is a resident of the home and desires to provide pediatric
speech pathology services to Draper City Residents and other clients. The operation of the
business is limited in area and scope to a single office space within the home (Exhibits E
and F). The applicant’s responses to the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
questions can be found in Exhibit G.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:




Communication Journeys                                                 App. #USE-0071-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         2
        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             The applicant lives in the home where the business will be located and will be
             the sole employee of the business.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             Upon approval of the conditional use permit the application will be required to
             obtain a business license, per the standards outlined in Title 6 of DCMC.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

             The applicant resides in the home and will be the sole employee of the business.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             The applicant will be required to comply with this section if/when the need
             arises. Inspections are part of the business license review process.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             The applicant has indicated that all applicable storage will occur inside the home
             in the dedicated office space. Outside storage is neither planned nor required.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.

             There will be no exterior modifications made to the home. All business activities
             will take place inside the dwelling (see Exhibits E and F). Parking is available on
             the existing driveway for clients who come to the home.




Communication Journeys                                                      App. #USE-0071-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             3
        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             The operation of the business will not create any offensive odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise that would interfere with the peace or
             enjoyment of others outside of the property.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.

             The space being occupied by the business will only include approximately 11.8%
             of the overall main floor area (not including area of the garage), much less than
             the 25% limit.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.

             No signs have been proposed with the application. If a sign is added at a later
             date it will be required to comply with Chapter 26 of the DCMC.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             As customers are coming to the home one at a time and most will depart before
             the next appointment arrives, there will be no significant impacts to traffic,
             parking or access associated with this application. Parking for customers will be
             accommodated on the existing driveway. The driveway provides sufficient space
             for four additional cars above what can be accommodated in the garages,
             however, optimally the driveway provides parking for one additional vehicle
             without impacting full use of the garage parking spaces.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.




Communication Journeys                                                      App. #USE-0071-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             4
             No vehicles will be associated with the business outside of the business owner’s
             existing personal transportation. There will be no business related signage on
             the vehicle.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             This business will not store anything outdoors.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             Customers, which would include a child with their parent or guardian, will come
             to the home for scheduled appointments that last approximately 45 minutes in
             length with 15 minutes between appointments. Hours of operation are from 8
             a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             This business will not increase utility demand in excess of that customary to the
             principal residential use.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             All business activities will take place inside the primary dwelling structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.

             This business fits within the allowable list of conditional use home occupations
             as a personal instruction service. The property is not a multifamily property and
             therefore is not subject to those provisions applicable to multifamily properties.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah



Communication Journeys                                                   App. #USE-0071-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           5
             Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
             childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
             seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
             inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
             under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             This business does not provide child care, is not a cottage food production
             operation, and is not a food related home occupation.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
           conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
              where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
              reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
              may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
              landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to
              the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
              forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
              cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
              achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
              denied.
           4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
              conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
              conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
              achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                   requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                   transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                   landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                   circulation;




Communication Journeys                                                   App. #USE-0071-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           6
                g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                   emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                   facility or use; and
                h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
                   the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
             5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
                reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
                can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the



Communication Journeys                                                    App. #USE-0071-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           7
                 site and the construction on the site, including permitting.
        2.       That the home occupation business be conducted as described, with no
                 additional employees beyond the owner, and with customers coming to the
                 home by appointment.
        3.       That the home occupation maintain compliance with all other ordinance
                 requirements for home based businesses, including but not limited to the
                 storage of materials and limits to the area of the dwelling utilized for the
                 home occupation.
        4.       Any signage shall comply with DCMC Chapter 9-26 and a sign permit shall be
                 obtained before the installation of any signage.
        5.       The business comply with all local, county, and state licensing standards,
                 including any regulations of the Salt Lake County Health Department.
        6.       Client parking shall be provided on the driveway, and no on-street parking is
                 allowed in association with the business.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Stephanie Fowler, representing Communication Journeys LLC
for an in-home speech therapy office, application USE-0071-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 11, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Stephanie Fowler, representing Communication
Journeys LLC for an in-home speech therapy office, application USE-0071-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 11, 202, and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Stephanie Fowler, representing Communication Journeys LLC for



Communication Journeys                                                 App. #USE-0071-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          8
an in-home speech therapy office, application USE-0071-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 11, 2021..




Communication Journeys                                            App. #USE-0071-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit     9
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

We have reviewed the subject home occupation conditional use permit (CUP) application
according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our understanding that the
applicant is requesting a conditional use permit to operate a therapy business at their residence.
Accordingly, we offer the following comments related to the engineering findings, including the
following:

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
      utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
      Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
      impact to water, sewer, or other utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by potential employee(s), none presently anticipated other
      than the home owner/principal therapist, will not have a detrimental impact to traffic in
      the area due to the nature of the residence and the capacity of the fronting public
      residential street at the subject site. The applicant indicated that up to two or three clients
      at a time will come to the residence and will likely arrive in a single vehicle. The applicant
      indicated that client parking will be in the driveway.

   3. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare
      of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or
      improvements in the vicinity.


Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional Comments
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT F
FLOOR PLAN
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
