                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                         November 29, 2021

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: December 9, 2021

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      Juan Diego Tennis Courts (Fence) - Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: USE-0147-2021
         Applicant:        Joe Colosimo, representing Juan Diego Catholic High School and
                           the Catholic Diocese of Salt Lake City
         Project Location: Approximately 402 E. Kimballs Ln.
         Current Zoning: A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre minimum lot size) Zone
         Acreage:          37.15 Acres (Approximately 1,618,254 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the A5 zone
                           regarding erecting a new 10-foot tall fence to enclose new tennis
                           courts that are planned for construction on the property.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
37.15 acres located south of Kimballs Lane, and northeast of the intersection of 11950
South and 300 East, at 402 E. Kimballs Ln. (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned A5.
The applicant is requesting that a Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for the
installation of a new 10-foot tall fence to enclose new tennis courts that are planned for
construction on the property.

The property is also known as the campus of Juan Diego Catholic High School. The overall
High School site encompasses two parcels, however this conditional use application affects
only the larger easternmost parcel. The existing tennis courts are located directly east of
the southernmost parking lot on the property. New tennis courts have been proposed
under a separate application for installation northeast of the existing baseball diamond.



Juan Diego Tennis Courts - Fence                                     App. #USE-0147-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Cultural and
Institutional land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the A5 zoning classification, supporting approximately one
dwelling unit per five acres (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the A5 zone is to “maintain the status of large tracts of
agricultural land by allowing most commercial agricultural uses. Typical uses include farming,
dairy, and cattle production.” The RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft2minimum lot size)
zone abuts the subject property on the west, and RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000
ft2minimum lot size) abuts on the south and east. A mix of RA1, RA2, and R3 (Residential
13,000 ft2minimum lot size) zoning abuts to the north, inclusive of the properties across
Kimballs Ln.

Fencing. The proposed fencing would consist of all new 10-foot tall chain link fencing that
would surround new tennis courts being proposed to be added to the property under a
separate application request. (Exhibits E and F). The applicant’s statements with regards to
the application submittal is included with this report as Exhibit G.

The DCMC requires a Conditional Use Permit to install any fencing that is greater than 6-
feet in height.




Juan Diego Tennis Courts - Fence                                     App. #USE-0147-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                2
         DCMC Section 9-27-080(A)(2)
         “when located behind the front wall plane a fence, wall, or other visual obstruction, not
         including trees, shall not exceed six feet (6') in height unless a greater height is allowed by
         a conditional use permit or as otherwise permitted in this title.”

         DCMC Section 9-27-080(E)
         “Fences, walls, and other visual obstructions, not including trees, between six feet (6') and
         ten feet (10') in height shall be allowed only behind the front wall plane, and shall require
         a conditional use permit. Any such visual obstruction over six feet (6') in height must meet
         the setback requirements for accessory buildings unless otherwise permitted by a
         conditional use permit, except that no wall shall be constructed within a utility easement
         without the prior written permission of all affected utility companies.”

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
conditional use permit:

    1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
       the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.

    2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
       reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
       may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
       landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to
       the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
       forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.

    3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
       cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
       achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.

    4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
       conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions,
       or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance
       with applicable standards:

         a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
            requirements of the city's general plan and this title;

         b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;

         c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
            development in the vicinity;




Juan Diego Tennis Courts - Fence                                             App. #USE-0147-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                      3
         d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;

         e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;

         f.   The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
              transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
              landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
              circulation;

         g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
            such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
            and

         h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
            the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.

    5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
       needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



Juan Diego Tennis Courts - Fence                                        App. #USE-0147-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   4
If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
       and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
       alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Joe Colosimo, representing Juan Diego Catholic High School and the Catholic
Diocese of Salt Lake City for the installation of 10-foot tall fencing, application USE-0147-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
November 29, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Joe Colosimo, representing Juan Diego Catholic High School and the
Catholic Diocese of Salt Lake City for the installation of 10-foot tall fencing, application USE-
0147-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated November 29, 2021and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Joe Colosimo, representing Juan Diego Catholic High School and the Catholic Diocese of
Salt Lake City for the installation of 10-foot tall fencing, application USE-0147-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 29,
2021.




Juan Diego Tennis Courts - Fence                                        App. #USE-0147-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  5
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
               and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
               impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
               anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other utilities.

       2.      The number of trips generated by the owner will not have a detrimental impact
               to traffic in the area due to only one to three contractor vehicles visiting the
               site before, during, or after school hours. The anticipated increase in traffic is
               well below the 100 peak hour trips that would require a Traffic Impact Study.

       3.      Impact to parking may be anticipated with the proposed use, as it is expected that
               one to three contractor vehicles would be present during the school season. Since
               many parking lots will not be available during school hours, it is recommend to
               park construction vehicles along 11800 South, or park at the northern lot during
               after-school hours.

       4.      The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
               welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the
               property or improvements in the vicinity.


Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.



Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional Comments
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
5746 South 1475 East Ogden, Utah 84403
Main (801)394-4515 S.L.C (801)521-0222 Fax (801)392-7544
W W W . G R E A T B A S I N E N G I N E E R I N G . C O M
5746 South 1475 East Ogden, Utah 84403
Main (801)394-4515 S.L.C (801)521-0222 Fax (801)392-7544
W W W . G R E A T B A S I N E N G I N E E R I N G . C O M
 EXHIBIT F
ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE SIDEWALK                              THICKENED EDGE WALK
                                                                                                                                                            10   NOT TO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            9   NOT TO SCALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5746 South 1475 East Ogden, Utah 84403
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W W W . G R E A T B A S I N E N G I N E E R I N G . C O M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Main (801)394-4515 S.L.C (801)521-0222 Fax (801)392-7544
    SLIP DOWEL EXPANSION JOINT
8   NOT TO SCALE




    FENCE POST AT PERIMITER BEAM                     TENNIS COURT                                            TENNIS COURT FENCE
7   1 1/2" = 1'-0"                 DETAIL-FILE
                                                 6   1/8" = 1'-0"                          DETAIL-FILE
                                                                                                         5   3/4" = 1'-0"                                                                                                             DETAIL-FILE

                                                                                                                                                                                                    3'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                        42"



                                                                                                                                                                                              3"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                    14"
    TENNIS NET POST & TIE-DOWN                       TYPICAL POST TENSIONED SLAB SECTION                     TYPICAL PERIMITER BEAM SECTION                      CLOSURE STRIP DETAIL
4   3/4" = 1'-0"                   DETAIL-FILE
                                                 3   1 1/2" = 1'-0"                        DETAIL-FILE
                                                                                                         2   1 1/2" = 1'-0"                   DETAIL-FILE
                                                                                                                                                            1    1 1/2" = 1'-0"                                                       DETAIL-FILE
      EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENT
