                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 April 7, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 22, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper @draperutah.gov

Re:     Greg Zitting Fine Art – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-0033-2021
        Applicant:        Greg Zitting
        Project Location: 13086 S. Green Clover Rd.
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.96 Acres (Approximately 41,818 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit for a home based business in the RA1 zone regarding a
                          fine art studio.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately .96 acres located on the west side of Green Clover Road, at approximately
13086 S. Green Clover Rd. (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is
requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for the
operation of a fine art studio and services from the home.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This
category is characterized as follows:



Greg Zitting Fine Art                                                App. #USE-0033-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request        1
The property has been assigned the RA1 zoning classification, supporting approximately
one dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses”.

The RA1 zoning abuts the subject property on the north and east, and RA2 (Residential
Agricultural, 20,000 ft² minimum lot size) abuts on the south. The Transit Station District
(TSD) zone abuts the property on the west.




Greg Zitting Fine Art                                                     App. #USE-0033-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
Home Occupation. The applicant is a resident of the home and desires to provide fine art
painting services to Draper City Residents and other clients with sales taking place through
the use of websites and virtual storefronts on the internet. The operation of the business is
limited in area and scope to the artist’s studio located within a bedroom. The applicant’s
responses to the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit questions can be found in
Exhibit F.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             The applicant lives in the home where the business will be located and will be
             the sole employee of the business.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             Upon approval of the conditional use permit the application will be required to
             obtain a business license, per the standards outlined in Title 6 of DCMC.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

             The applicant is a family member of the homeowners and will not be employing
             nonfamily or nonresident employees.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             The applicant will be required to comply with this section if/when the need
             arises. Inspections are part of the business license review process.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.




Greg Zitting Fine Art                                                        App. #USE-0033-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     3
             The applicant has indicated that they will be conducting the entire business from
             a bedroom which is approximately 168 ft2 in size. Outside storage is neither
             planned nor required.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.

             There will be no exterior modifications made to the home. All business activities
             will take place inside the dwelling in a single bedroom (see Exhibits E and F). As
             customers do not come to the home, additional parking is not needed.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             The operation of the business will not create any offensive odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise that would interfere with the peace or
             enjoyment of others outside of the property.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.

             The space being occupied by the business will only include one bedroom. The
             area utilized for the business will be approximately 5.4% of the main floor area,
             much less than the 25% limit.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.

             No signs have been proposed with the application. If a sign is added at a later
             date it will be required to comply with Chapter 26 of the DCMC.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.




Greg Zitting Fine Art                                                       App. #USE-0033-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
             As no customers are coming to the home, there will be no impacts to traffic,
             parking or access.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.

             No vehicles will be associated with the business outside of the business owner’s
             existing personal transportation. There will be no business related signage on
             the vehicle.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             This business will not store anything outdoors.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             This business operates primarily online and no customers will be coming to the
             residence.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             This business will not increase utility demand in excess of that customary to the
             principal residential use.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             All business activities will take place inside the primary dwelling structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.




Greg Zitting Fine Art                                                     App. #USE-0033-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
             This business fits within the allowable list of conditional use home occupations
             as a cottage business. The property is not a multifamily property and therefore
             is not subject to those provisions applicable to multifamily properties.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             This business does not provide child care, is not a cottage food production
             operation, and is not a food related home occupation.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
           of a conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
               where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
               zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
               mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
               These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
               character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and
               other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
               conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
               conditional use permit.
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
               use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
               conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional
               use may be denied.
           4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
               whether a conditional use permit application should be approved, approved
               with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be
               imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                   and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;



Greg Zitting Fine Art                                                   App. #USE-0033-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
                c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                   existing development in the vicinity;
                d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                   area;
                e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                   area;
                f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                   transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                   screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and
                   vehicular circulation;
                g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                   emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                   proposed facility or use; and
                h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                   welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
                   the area.
             5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
                reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
                subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




Greg Zitting Fine Art                                                App. #USE-0033-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That the home occupation business be conducted as described, with no
                 additional employees beyond the owner, and without customers coming to
                 the home.
        2.       That the home occupation maintain compliance with all other ordinance
                 requirements for home based businesses, including but not limited to the
                 storage of materials and limits to that area of the dwelling utilized for the
                 home occupation.
        3.       Any signage shall comply with DCMC Chapter 9-26 and a sign permit shall be
                 obtained before the installation of any signage.
        4.       The business comply with all local, county, and state licensing standards,
                 including the Salt Lake County Health Department.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Greg Zitting for Greg Zitting Fine Art, application USE-0033-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
April 7, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Greg Zitting for Greg Zitting Fine Art, application
USE-0033-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated April 7, 2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:



Greg Zitting Fine Art                                                  App. #USE-0033-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
        1. List any additional findings and conditions.

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Greg Zitting for Greg Zitting Fine Art, application USE-0033-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 7,
2021.




Greg Zitting Fine Art                                                 App. #USE-0033-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
We have reviewed the subject home occupation conditional use permit (CUP) application
according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our understanding that the
applicant is requesting a conditional use permit to create fine art in an in-home studio located at
the subject address. Accordingly, we offer the following comments related to the engineering
findings, including the following:

       1.      The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and
               other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted by
               the proposed use. The number of trips generated by potential employee(s), the
               owner is the only employee, will not have a detrimental impact to the area due to
               the nature of the residence and the availability of onsite parking in the driveway at
               the residence. The applicant states no customers will come to the residences as
               part of the business. The subject residence has a large driveway with adequate
               off-street parking. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated
               to generate a significant impact to traffic, water, sewer, or other utilities;

       2.      Parking is available at the residence, and Engineering recommends that all parking
               be in the driveway of the residence. The fronting public street is the typical
               residential street but may be impacted by snow or neighborhood traffic and
               therefore should not be the primary parking location. Onsite parking is especially
               important during winter months when there may be excessive snow on the street
               and where on-street parking may be a safety issue;

       3.      Traffic circulation in the area is not anticipated to be negatively impacted. General
               access to the residence is from Green Clover Road, a residential street. Based on
               the requested use, the anticipated increase in traffic is insignificant, from a single
               customer, and will not impact street functionality in the neighborhood or at
               intersections accessing the residence.

       4.      The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
               welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the
               property or improvements in the vicinity based on the proposed shipping and
               delivery portion of the business, limited number of customers onsite, and the few
               employees working at the site.


Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments



Fire Division Review.
Thank you for submitting your plans for the Greg Zitting Fine Art Home Occ. project. Please
review all comments contained in this letter. This project SHALL, be designed to meet all
requirements of the 2018 International Fire Code. Please contact the Fire Marshal Don
Buckley at (801) 824-3714 for any and all inspections or questions.

       1.      2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
               serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to
               be located in a conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and
               immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or
               not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not
               more than five (5) feet above the floor.

       2.      Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
               address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
               property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                   EXHIBIT F
                            APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE


Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Application Additional Questions:


   1. What is the present use of the property (Manufacturing, Agricultural,
      Residential, Commercial)?
         a. Residential
   2. What is the proposed use? Be specific as to use, hours of operation, number
      of employees, etc.
         a. Studio for living and painting. Hours will generally be 9 am – 5 pm, but
            as no customers will visit it’s not particularly relevant. I (applicant) will
            be the sole employee, there will be no other employees.
   3. Please discuss how the proposed use will “fit-in” with surrounding uses.
         a. I already live and paint here, the only change is that I will be selling the
            paintings, specifically through online means.
   4. What type of service will it provide to the City of Draper?
         a. If any Draper residents want to commission a painting or buy a print,
            that’s the service.
   5. Is the proposed use consistent with the current zoning & land use
      designation? Please explain.
         a. Many artists live and work in their studio, as this zone is residential
            painting in my bedroom presents no obstacle to the zoning intent.
   6. Is the proposed use similar or compatible to other uses in the same area?
      Please explain.
         a. Yes, as answered in question #5.
   7. Is the proposed use suitable for the proposed site? Please explain.
         a. Yes, could be a little more spacious, but I’m not complaining.
   8. Will the proposed use emit noise, glare, dust, pollutants, & odor? Please
      explain.
         a. No, the painting methods used produce no significant amounts of the
            concerned restraints.
9. What will be the hours of operation & how many people will be employed?
   Please specify if any employees will not be residents of the home.
      a. 9 am – 5 pm, no other employees as stated in the answer to question
         #2.
10. If applicable, how many clients will come to the home daily?
      a. None.
