    EXHIBIT N
GEOLOGIC REPORTS
                                                                     GORDON
                                                           G
                                                               2
                                                                     GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                     ENGINEERING, INC.




                                    REVISION NO. 1
                                        REPORT
                           UPDATED GEOTECHNICAL STUDY
                         PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE
                         LOT 27, OAK VISTA NO. 1 AT SUNCREST
                            14812 SOUTH OAK BLUFF PLACE
                                    DRAPER, UTAH




                                                                        August 14, 2020

                                                                    Job No. 224-023-19



                                                                       Prepared for:
                                                                        Breen Homes
                                                           1175 Westminster Avenue
                                                          Salt Lake City, Utah 84105



                                                                       Prepared by:
                                                Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.
                                                 4426 South Century Drive, Suite 100
                                                         Salt Lake City, Utah 84123
                                                                  Tel: 801-327-9600
                                                                 Fax: 801-327-9601
                                                           www.gordongeotech.com




GEOLOGICAL ENGINEERING       GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING              ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
                                                                                      GORDON
                                                                              G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                                  2

                                                                                      ENGINEERING, INC.



       August 14, 2020
       Job No. 224-023-19

       Breen Homes
       1175 Westminster Avenue
       Salt Lake City, Utah 84105

       Attention:         Mr. Adam Breen

       Ladies and Gentlemen:

       Re:      Revision No.1
                Report
                Updated Geotechnical Study
                Proposed Residential Structure
                Lot 27, Oak Vista No. 1 at Suncrest
                14812 South Oak Bluff Place
                Draper, Utah


       1.       INTRODUCTION

       1.1      GENERAL

       This report presents the results of our updated geotechnical study for the proposed single-family
       residential structure located at 14812 South Oak Bluff Place in Draper, Utah. The general
       location of the site is shown on Figure 1, Vicinity Map. The proposed development lot is
       0.48 acres in area, as shown on Figure 2, Area Map. The locations of our geological
       exploration trench, as well as current and previous test pits are also shown on Figure 2, Area
       Map. A previous geotechnical study for the property was conducted by our office in 20161.
       Additionally, a Geologic Hazard Evaluation and Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis was
       performed concurrently with this updated geotechnical study. The conclusions and
       recommendations of the previous geotechnical report and concurrent geologic hazard
       evaluation and geotechnical slope stability analysis have been incorporated into this report.

       During the course of this study, many of the conclusions and recommendations were presented
       to the design team and owner.


       1
                “Report, Geotechnical Study, Proposed Residential Structure, 14812 South Oak Bluff Place,
                Draper, Utah”, G2 Job No. 224-010-16, Dated September 27, 2016.

Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.                                                           Tel: 801-327-9600
4426 South Century Drive, Suite 100                                                             Fax: 801-327-9601
Salt Lake City, Utah 84123                                                                 www.gordongeotech.com


GEOLOGICAL ENGINEERING                  GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING                  ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
Breen Homes
                                                                             GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                     G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                         2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                   ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



1.2    OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE

The objectives and scope of our study were planned in discussions between Mr. Adam Breen of
Breen Homes and Mr. Patrick Emery of Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc. (G2).

In general, the objectives of this study were to:

       1.      Accurately define and evaluate the subsurface soil and groundwater conditions
               across the site.

       2.      Provide appropriate foundation, earthwork, subdrain, and geoseismic
               recommendations to be utilized in the design and construction of the proposed
               facility.

In accomplishing these objectives, our scope has included the following:

       1.      A field program consisting of the excavating, logging, and sampling of four test
               pits and one continuous trench.

       2.      A laboratory testing program.

       3.      An office program consisting of the correlation of available data, engineering
               analyses, and the preparation of this summary report.

1.3    AUTHORIZATION

Authorization was provided by returning a signed copy of our Professional Services Agreement
No. 19-1023 dated October 24, 2019 and executed October 30, 2019.

1.4    PROFESSIONAL STATEMENTS

Supporting data upon which our recommendations are based are presented in subsequent
sections of this report. Recommendations presented herein are governed by the physical
properties of the soils encountered in the exploration test pits and trenches, measured and
projected groundwater conditions, and the layout and design data discussed in Section 2.,
Proposed Construction, of this report. If subsurface conditions other than those described in
this report are encountered and/or if design and layout changes are implemented, G2 must be
informed so that our recommendations can be reviewed and amended, if necessary.

Our professional services have been performed, our findings developed, and our
recommendations prepared in accordance with generally accepted engineering principles and
practices in this area at this time.



                                                                                         Page 2
Breen Homes
                                                                              GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                      G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                          2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                    ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



2.     PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION

A single-family residential structure is planned for the 0.48-acre lot. The proposed structure is
anticipated to be two to three levels above grade with a full-depth basement level and of wood-
frame and concrete construction. Maximum column and wall loads are projected to be on the
order of 40 to 60 kips and 2 to 3 kips per lineal foot, respectively.

Site development will require a moderate amount of earthwork in the form of site grading. It is
estimated that maximum cuts and fills to achieve design grades will be on the order of four to
eight feet.

3.     INVESTIGATIONS

3.1    FIELD PROGRAM

In order to define and evaluate the subsurface soil and groundwater conditions across the site,
4 test pits were excavated to depths of 8 to 17 feet below existing grade. The approximate
locations of the test pits are presented on Figure 2. As part of our geologic hazard evaluation
analysis, a continuous exploration trench 84 feet in length was also excavated and logged to
evaluate landslide hazards for the site. The location of the trench is also presented on Figure 2.
The test pit locations excavated in conjunction with our previous 2016 geotechnical study are
also shown on Figure 2.

The field portion of our study was under the direct control and continual supervision of
experienced members of our geotechnical and engineering geology staff. During the course of
the excavation operations, a continuous log of the subsurface conditions encountered was
maintained. In addition, samples of the typical soils encountered were obtained for subsequent
laboratory testing and examination. The soils were classified in the field based upon visual and
textural examination. These classifications have been supplemented by subsequent inspection
and testing in our laboratory. Detailed graphical representation of the subsurface conditions
encountered is presented on Figures 4A through 4D, Log of Test Pits. Trench Logs are
included with the concurrent geologic hazard evaluation and slope stability analysis report.
Soils were classified in accordance with the nomenclature described on Figure 5, Unified Soil
Classification System.

Disturbed bag samples were collected from the soils brought up by the backhoe bucket.
Additionally, relatively undisturbed samples were obtained using 2.42-inch inside diameter hand
sampling equipment.

Following completion of excavating and logging, each test pit and continuous trench was
backfilled. Although an effort was made to compact the backfill with the backhoe, backfill was
not placed in uniform lifts and compacted to a specific density. Consequently, settlement of the
backfill with time is likely to occur.


                                                                                            Page 3
Breen Homes
                                                                              GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                    G         GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                         2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                    ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



3.2     LABORATORY TESTING

3.2.1   General

In order to provide data necessary for our engineering analyses, a laboratory testing program
was performed. The program included: Atterberg limits, partial gradation, direct shear, and
residual ring shear tests. The following paragraphs describe the tests and summarize the test
data.

3.2.2   Atterberg Limits Tests

To aid in classifying the site soils, an Atterberg limits test was performed upon three
representative samples of the soils encountered in the exploration trench. Results of the tests
are as follows:

                               Liquid         Plastic       Plasticity
        Test Pit   Depth        Limit          Limit          Index               Soil
          No.      (feet)     (percent)      (percent)      (percent)         Classification
      Trench 1 @
       STA 27.5      8.5           65           27             38                  CH
      Trench 1 @
       STA 39.0      5.0           60           20             40                  CH
      Trench 1 @
       STA 44.5      9.5           57           21             36                  CH


3.2.3   Partial Gradation Tests

To further aid in classifying the soils and to provide general index parameters, a partial
gradation test was performed upon three representative samples of the soils encountered in the
exploration trench. The results of the tests are tabulated below:

                              Depth       Percent Passing           Soil
              Test Pit No.    (feet)       No. 200 Sieve        Classification
              Trench 1 @
               STA 27.5           8.5          52.6                      CH
              Trench 1 @
               STA 35.0           5.0          86.7                      CH
              Trench 1 @
               STA 45.0           9.5          87.1                      CH




                                                                                           Page 4
Breen Homes
                                                                                 GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                       G         GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                           2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                       ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



3.2.4   Direct Shear Test

To provide data necessary for our slope stability analysis, a direct shear test was performed on
a relatively undisturbed sample of the typical soils encountered at the site. The results of the
direct shear test are tabulated below:

                Test Pit       Depth         Soil           Friction    Cohesion
                  No.          (feet)    Classification      Angle        (psf)
              Trench 1 @
               STA 35.0         5.0            CH              16              1116


Direct shear test results are provided in Appendix A.

3.2.5   Residual Ring Shear Test

To provide data necessary for our slope stability analysis, a residual ring shear test was
performed on a sample of the interface between the Ash deposits and indurated block and ash
bedrock observed in the exploration trench at the site. This thin layer at the interface is
interpreted in the geologic hazard evaluation to be a deformed zone. The results of the residual
ring shear test are tabulated below:

                                                             Peak          Residual
                Test Pit       Depth         Soil           Friction       Friction
                  No.          (feet)    Classification      Angle          Angle
              Trench 1 @
               STA 27.5          8.5           CH              20              19.5


Residual ring shear test results are provided in Appendix A.

4.      SITE CONDITIONS

4.1     SURFACE

The site consists of a roughly rectangular-shaped parcel of vacant land. The site is covered
with a light growth of grasses, weeds, and numerous scrub oak trees. The site is bordered by
undeveloped land to the north; existing residential structures border the site to the east, south,
and west.

The overall topography of the site slopes downhill to the northeast with an overall relief on the
order of 40 to 50 feet. The western portion of the site contains a densely vegetated slope at up
to 47 percent in steepness and 25 feet in height. The eastern portion of the site generally

                                                                                            Page 5
Breen Homes
                                                                                GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                        G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                            2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                      ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



consists of a flatter slope at less than 25 percent. The relatively sharp slope break running
roughly north-south through the approximate center of the site corresponds closely to a surficial
contact between weathered ash deposits and indurated block and ash bedrock.

Representative photographs of the site area are shown on Figure 6, Photographs.

4.2    SUBSURFACE SOIL AND BEDROCK

The soil conditions encountered in each of the test pits and trench, to the depths excavated,
were relatively similar. From the surface and extending to a depth of seven feet in Test Pit TP-3
are silty sand and gravel fills. The fills will exhibit variable and, in most cases, poor engineering
characteristics.

From the surface and extending to a depth of 4 to 17+ feet in Test Pits TP-1, TP-1A, TP-2,
TP-2A, TP-3A, TP-4A, and underlying the fills in Test Pit TP-3, is highly plastic clays (fat clays).
The fat clay soils are brown to reddish-brown in color, moist, very stiff, and contain some fine
sand and gravel. The fat clays exhibit moisture sensitive characteristics; that is, soils will
expand with significant increase in moisture content. The fat clay soil corresponds to the
weathered ash deposits identified in the geologic hazard evaluation report.

Underlying the fat clays at the test pit locations, weathered bedrock consisting of indurated
block and ash volcanic rocks was encountered. The weathered bedrock is white to light 5gray to
light reddish-brown in color, soft grading to moderately hard with depth, and dry to slightly moist.
The indurated block and ash bedrock will exhibit high strength, low compressibility, and non-
moisture sensitive characteristics under the anticipated loading range.

The lines designating the interface between soil types on the test pit logs generally represent
approximate boundaries. In-situ, the transition between soil types may be gradual.

4.3    GROUNDWATER

Groundwater was not encountered in the test pits or continuous trench during excavation
operations. Groundwater is projected to be at depths of approximately 50 to 100 feet below the
east and west portions of the site, respectively. Although the projected static water table is
deep, it has been our experience in the area that “perched” groundwater conditions may
develop during late spring and early summer months.




                                                                                               Page 6
Breen Homes
                                                                             GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                     G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                         2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                   ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



5.     DISCUSSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

5.1    SUMMARY OF FINDINGS

The site is suitable for the proposed development from a geotechnical standpoint provided that
the recommendations provided herein are incorporated into the design and construction of the
proposed structure. The most significant geotechnical aspects of the site are:

       1.     Stability of the natural slope.

The results of our concurrent geologic hazard evaluation and geotechnical slope stability
analysis (separate report) indicate that the weathered ash deposits (fat clay) on the
northeastern portion of the site have been deformed due to past block failure movement.
According to our analysis, the factor of safety against slope failure of the weathered ash
deposits is less than the Draper City required minimum of 1.5. Additionally, the slope is at risk
of failure during the design seismic event.

The most preferable solution, from a geotechnical/geologic engineering standpoint, is hazard
avoidance. If other project constraints will allow, the proposed structure may be located off of
the unstable slide mass (fat clay). The indurated block and ash bedrock on the hillside above
the weathered ash deposits (uphill of the shear zone identified in the exploration trench for the
geologic hazards study) is stable and is suitable from a slope stability hazard standpoint.

In summary, the steeper slopes in the southeast portion of the site, formed by the indurated
block and ash bedrock, meets the required factor of safety against slope instability. The lower
portion of the site (where the fat clay was encountered) does not meet the required factor of
safety against slope stability.

Based on the observed angle of the shear zone, and depth to bedrock encountered in the
exploration trench and test pits, we have generated a “Recommended Buildable Area”, shown
on Figure 3, Recommended Buildable Area. With this area shown, stabile indurated block and
ash bedrock is projected to be encountered within 15 feet of the existing ground surface.
Structures located within the “Recommended Buildable Area” may be supported on
conventional spread and wall foundations extending to block and ash bedrock and/or structural
fill extending to block and ash bedrock. Structures within the “Recommended Buildable Zone”
will meet the required factor of safety against slope instability. Structures established outside
the “Recommended Buildable Area” would need to be supported on deep foundations designed
to resist very high shear forces that would be generated during a slope failure. Based on our
experience, the shear resistant deep foundations required would be uneconomical for
residential construction.

       2.     The expansive characteristics of the fat clays encountered at the site.



                                                                                           Page 7
Breen Homes
                                                                                  GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                          G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                              2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                        ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



Due to the slope stability concerns and expansive characteristics of the fat clay encountered at
the site, fat clays must be completely removed from below foundations. The proposed structure
must be established entirely on stable indurated block and ash bedrock or structural fill
extending to indurated block and ash bedrock.

Fat clays may potentially remain below floor slabs provided the floor slab is established on a
minimum of two feet of granular structural fill. It is our opinion that with proper control of the
moisture content of the supporting soils beneath at-grade slabs, vertical movements can be
appropriately minimized. See Section 5.6, Floor Slabs, and Section 5.10, Water Control, for
more details.

        3.     The potential for “perched” groundwater conditions.

Due to the potential for “perched” groundwater conditions to develop at the site, a foundation
subdrain system is recommended.

Detailed discussions pertaining to slope stability, earthwork, foundations, floor slabs, lateral
resistance, subdrains, and the geoseismic setting of the site are discussed in the following
sections.

5.2     EARTHWORK

5.2.1   Site Preparation

Preparation of the site must consist of the removal of all non-engineered fills (if encountered),
vegetation, loose surficial soils, fat clay soil, topsoil, debris, and other deleterious materials from
beneath an area extending at least three feet beyond the perimeter of the proposed building,
rigid pavement, and exterior flatwork areas.

Subsequent to the above operations and prior to the placement of footings, structural site
grading fill or floor slabs, the exposed natural subgrade must be proofrolled by passing
moderate-weight rubber tire-mounted construction equipment over the surface at least twice. If
any loose, soft, or disturbed zones are encountered, they must be completely removed in
footing and floor slab areas and replaced with granular structural fill. If removal depth required
is greater than two feet, G2 must be notified to provide further recommendations. In pavement
areas, unsuitable soils encountered during recompaction and proofrolling must be removed to a
maximum depth of two feet and replaced with compacted granular structural fill.

5.2.2   Excavations

Temporary construction excavations not exceeding four feet in depth may be constructed with
near-vertical sideslopes. Excavations up to 10 feet in fine-grained cohesive soils can be
constructed with sideslopes no steeper than three-quarters horizontal to one vertical


                                                                                                 Page 8
Breen Homes
                                                                                   GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                           G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                               2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                         ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



(0.75H:1.0V). Excavations up to 10 feet in the weathered bedrock may be constructed with
sideslopes no steeper than one-half horizontal to one vertical (0.5H:1.0V). If saturated granular
soils are encountered (not anticipated at the site), flatter sideslopes, shoring and bracing, and/or
dewatering will be required.

Test pit and trench excavations at the site and past experience in the area indicates excavations
of 5 to 10 feet into bedrock can generally be accomplished by using heavy construction
equipment and possibly “rippers”.

All excavations must be inspected periodically by qualified personnel. If any signs of instability
are noted, immediate remedial action must be initiated.

5.2.3   Structural Fill

Structural fill is defined as all fill which will ultimately be subjected to structural loadings, such as
imposed by footings, floor slabs, pavements, etc. Structural fill will be required as backfill over
foundations and utilities, as site grading fill, and in some areas, as replacement fill below
footings. All structural fill must be free of sod, rubbish, topsoil, frozen soil, and other deleterious
materials. Structural site grading fill is defined as fill placed over fairly large open areas to raise
the overall site grade. For structural site grading fill, the maximum particle size should generally
not exceed four inches; although, occasional larger particles, not exceeding six inches in
diameter may be incorporated if placed randomly in a manner such that “honeycombing” does
not occur and the desired degree of compaction can be achieved. The maximum particle size
within structural fill placed within confined areas should generally be restricted to two inches.

The on-site fat clay soils are not recommended for use as structural site grading fill. Indurated
block and ash bedrock, when broken up, may potentially be utilized as structural site grading fill
provided any oversize material is removed.

To stabilize soft subgrade conditions or where structural fill is required to be placed below a
level one foot above the water table at the time of construction, a mixture of coarse gravels and
cobbles and/or one and one-half- to two-inch gravel (stabilizing fill) should be utilized.

Non-structural site grading fill is defined as all fill material not designated as structural fill and
may consist of any cohesive or granular soils not containing excessive amounts of degradable
material.




                                                                                                   Page 9
Breen Homes
                                                                                      GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                             G        GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                                  2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                            ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



5.2.4   Fill Placement and Compaction

Structural fill shall be placed in lifts not exceeding eight inches in loose thickness. Structural fills
shall be compacted in accordance with the percent of the maximum dry density as determined
by the AASHTO2 T-180 (ASTM3 D-1557) compaction criteria in accordance with the following
table:

                                                          Total Fill
                                                         Thickness      Minimum Percentage of
                       Location                            (feet)        Maximum Dry Density
        Beneath an area extending at least 3 feet
          beyond the perimeter of the structure             0 to 8                    95

              Outside area defined above                    0 to 6                    90

              Outside area defined above                    6 to 8                    92

                        Road base                              -                      96


Structural fills greater than eight feet thick are not anticipated at the site.

Subsequent to stripping and prior to the placement of structural site grading fill, the subgrade
must be prepared as discussed in Section 5.2.1, Site Preparation, of this report. In confined
areas, subgrade preparation should consist of the removal of all loose or disturbed soils.

Coarse gravel and cobble mixtures (stabilizing fill), if utilized, shall be end-dumped, spread to a
maximum loose lift thickness of 15 inches, and compacted by dropping a backhoe bucket onto
the surface continuously at least twice. As an alternative, the fill may be compacted by passing
moderately heavy construction equipment or large self-propelled compaction equipment at least
twice. Subsequent fill material placed over the coarse gravels and cobbles shall be adequately
placed so that the “fines” are “worked into” the voids in the underlying coarser gravels and
cobbles.

Non-structural fill may be placed in lifts not exceeding 12 inches in loose thickness and
compacted by passing construction, spreading, or hauling equipment over the surface at least
twice.




2
        American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
3
        American Society for Testing and Materials

                                                                                                 Page 10
Breen Homes
                                                                                   GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                          G        GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                              2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                         ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



5.2.5   Utility Trenches

All utility trench backfill material below structurally loaded facilities (flatwork, floor slabs, roads,
etc.) should be placed at the same density requirements established for structural fill. If the
surface of the backfill becomes disturbed during the course of construction, the backfill should
be proofrolled and/or properly compacted prior to the construction of any exterior flatwork over a
backfilled trench. Proofrolling may be performed by passing moderately loaded rubber tire-
mounted construction equipment uniformly over the surface at least twice. If excessively loose
or soft areas are encountered during proofrolling, they should be removed to a maximum depth
of two feet below design finish grade and replaced with structural fill.

Most utility companies and City-County governments are now requiring that Type A-1 or A-1-a
(AASHTO Designation – basically granular soils with limited fines) soils be used as backfill over
utilities. These organizations are also requiring that in public roadways the backfill over major
utilities be compacted over the full depth of fill to at least 96 percent of the maximum dry density
as determined by the AASHTO T-180 (ASTM D-1557) method of compaction. We recommend
that as the major utilities continue onto the site that these compaction specifications are
followed.

The on-site fat clay soils are not recommended for use as trench backfill. Indurated block and
ash bedrock, when broken up, may potentially be utilized as utility trench backfill.

5.3     SPREAD AND CONTINUOUS WALL FOUNDATIONS

5.3.1   Design Data

The proposed structure may be supported upon conventional spread and continuous wall
foundations established upon suitable indurated block and ash bedrock or structural fill
extending to indurated block and ash bedrock. Under no circumstances shall footings be placed
overlying non-engineered fills or fat clay soils.




                                                                                                 Page 11
Breen Homes
                                                                                  GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                       G          GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                           2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                        ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



For design, the following parameters are provided with respect to the projected loading
discussed in Section 2., Proposed Construction, of this report:

        Minimum Recommended Depth of Embedment for
          Frost Protection                                                     - 42 inches

        Minimum Recommended Depth of Embedment for
          Non-frost Conditions                                                 - 15 inches

        Recommended Minimum Width for Continuous
          Wall Footings                                                        - 18 inches

        Minimum Recommended Width for Isolated Spread
          Footings                                                             - 24 inches

        Recommended Net Bearing Pressure for Real Load Conditions

            For footings on indurated block and ash bedrock and/or
            structural fill extending to indurated block and ash bedrock       - 3,500 pounds
                                                                                 per square foot

        Bearing Pressure Increase
          for Seismic Loading                                                  - 50 percent*

        *   Not applicable for edge bearing pressure when the footings are established upon
            granular soil. Use 25 percent for overturning or other inclined loading.

The term “net bearing pressure” refers to the pressure imposed by the portion of the structure
located above lowest adjacent final grade. Therefore, the weight of the footing and backfill to
the lowest adjacent final grade need not be considered. Real loads are defined as the total of
all dead plus frequently applied live loads. Total load includes all dead and live loads, including
seismic and wind.

5.3.2   Installation

Under no circumstances shall the footings be established upon non-engineered fills, expansive
soils, loose or disturbed soils, rubbish, construction debris, other deleterious materials, frozen
soils, or within ponded water. If unsuitable soils are encountered, they must be completely
removed and replaced with compacted structural fill.

The width of structural replacement fill below footings should be equal to the width of the footing
plus one foot for each foot of fill thickness.



                                                                                               Page 12
Breen Homes
                                                                                   GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                           G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                               2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                         ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



5.3.3   Settlements

Settlements of foundations designed and installed in accordance with above recommendations
and supporting maximum projected structural loads are anticipated to be on the order of one inch
or less. Settlements are expected to occur rapidly with approximately 60 to 70 percent of the
settlements occurring during construction.

5.4     LATERAL RESISTANCE

Lateral loads imposed upon foundations due to wind or seismic forces may be resisted by the
development of passive earth pressures and friction between the base of the footings and the
supporting soils. In determining frictional resistance on indurated block and ash bedrock, a
coefficient of 0.45 should be utilized. Passive resistance provided by properly placed and
compacted granular structural fill above the water table may be considered equivalent to a fluid
with a density of 300 pounds per cubic foot. Below the water table, this granular soil should be
considered equivalent to a fluid with a density of 150 pounds per cubic foot.

A combination of passive earth resistance and friction may be utilized provided that the friction
component of the total is divided by 1.5.

5.5     LATERAL PRESSURES

The lateral pressure parameters, as presented within this section, assume that the backfill
extending at least five feet from the back of the wall be properly placed and compacted granular
soil. Indurated block and ash bedrock, if meeting the requirement of granular soil, may be
utilized as backfill behind retaining walls and around below grade facilities. Fat clay is not
recommended as backfill. If indurated block and ash bedrock cannot be used or does not meet
the requirement of granular soil, imported granular soil may be required. The lateral pressures
imposed upon subgrade facilities will, therefore, be basically dependent upon the relative rigidity
and movement of the backfilled structure. For active walls, such as retaining walls which can
move outward (away from the backfill), granular backfill may be considered equivalent to a fluid
with a density of 35 pounds per cubic foot in computing lateral pressures. For more rigid
basement walls, granular backfill may be considered equivalent to a fluid with a density of 45
pounds per cubic foot. For very rigid non-yielding walls, granular backfill should be considered
equivalent to a fluid with a density of at least 55 pounds per cubic foot. The above values
assume that the surface of the soils slope behind the wall is horizontal, that the granular fill has
been placed and lightly compacted, not as structural fill. If the fill is placed as a structural fill the
values should be increased to 45 pounds per cubic foot, 60 pounds per cubic foot, and 120
pounds per cubic foot, respectively.

Recommended average lateral uniform pressure for various height walls are tabulated on the
following page and assume a granular wall backfill with a horizontal grade above the wall. It
should be noted that the lateral pressures as quoted assume that the backfill materials will not


                                                                                                  Page 13
Breen Homes
                                                                             GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                     G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                         2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                   ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



become saturated. If the backfill becomes saturated, the above values may be decreased by
one-half; however, full hydrostatic water pressures will have to be included.

                   Wall Height              Uniform Seismic Lateral Pressure*, **
                     (feet)                                (psf)
                         4                                     96
                         8                                    193
                        12                                    289
           * Maximum short-term pressures, they are not sustained loads.
          ** For intermediate height wall, the lateral pressure will be developed
             based upon linear interpolation between the pressures at the specific
             height.


Note that the pressures presented in this section do not include surcharge loadings, such as
floor slabs, adjacent footings, etc.

5.6    FLOOR SLABS

Because of the potentially expansive nature of the natural soils, it is our recommendation that
the slabs be underlain by at least two feet of well-graded granular fill containing at least
20 percent low plasticity fines. Settlements of lightly loaded floor slabs will be negligible.

Outside flatwork will be subject to frost and vertical movements due to the expansion of the
clays. To reduce this potential, all critical outside flatwork should be underlain by at least
18 inches of the granular structural fill, as specified previously.

5.7    SUBDRAINS

Due to the potential for “perched” groundwater conditions, a permanent foundation/chimney
subdrain system is recommended around the outside of all below grade walls.

The perimeter subdrain pipe should consist of a minimum of four-inch diameter, slotted or
perforated pipe with the invert established at least 18 inches below the top of the lowest
adjacent slab. The pipe should be encased in a one-half- to one-inch minus clean gap-graded
crushed gravel extending two inches below, laterally, and up continuously at least 12 inches
above the top of the lowest adjacent slab. The same granular material could be utilized as the
chimney drain against the subgrade walls. The gravel chimney drain must be continuous and at
least six inches wide. In all cases, the gravels must be separated from natural soils or backfill
with a geotextile fabric, such as Mirafi 140N or equivalent. As an alternate, a synthetic drain
board, such as Miradrain or equivalent, can be used for the chimney subdrain. The slope of the


                                                                                          Page 14
Breen Homes
                                                                              GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                      G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                          2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                    ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



pipe should be at least 0.25 percent to a suitable point of gravity discharge, such as a sump
within or outside the perimeter of the below-grade portion of the structure or by gravity down-
gradient. Prior to installing the gravels, we recommend that the outside walls adjacent to
habitable areas be appropriately waterproofed.        If the areas are mechanical areas,
dampproofing should be adequate.

5.8     GEOSEISMIC SETTING

5.8.1   General

As of July 2019, the State of Utah has adopted the International Building Code (IBC) 2018 and
is still using the International Residential Code (IRC) 2015. The IBC 2018 code determines the
seismic response for a site based upon 2014 mapping of bedrock accelerations prepared by the
United States Geologic Survey (USGS) and the soil site class. The USGS values are presented
on maps incorporated into the IBC code and are also available based on latitude and longitude
coordinates (grid points).

5.8.2   Faulting

Based on our review of available literature, no active faults pass through or are immediately
adjacent to the site.

5.8.3   Soil Class

For dynamic structural analysis, the Site Class C – Very Dense Soil and Soft Rock Profile as
defined in Table 20.3-1, Site Classification, of ASCE 7-16 can be utilized.

5.8.4   Ground Motions

The IBC 2018 code is based on 2014 USGS mapping, which provides peak values of short and
long period accelerations (SS, S1) for the Site Class B-C boundary for the Maximum Considered
Earthquake (MCE). This Site Class B-C boundary represents a hypothetical bedrock surface
and must be corrected for local soil conditions based on the site soil class. The following table
summarizes the peak ground and short and long period accelerations for this site for a MCE
event and incorporates a soil amplification factor for a Site Class C soil profile in the second
column.       Based on the site latitude and longitude (40.4818 degrees north
and -111.8403 degrees west, respectively), the values for this site are tabulated on the following
page.




                                                                                           Page 15
Breen Homes
                                                                                 GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                      G          GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                          2

Updated Geotechnical Study                                                       ENGINEERING, INC.
August 14, 2020



                                                  Site Class B-C                 Site Class C
                                                    Boundary                  [adjusted for site
         Spectral Acceleration Value, T          [mapped values]                class effects]
                   Seconds                             (% g)                         (% g)

              Peak Ground Acceleration                  67.4                        80.9
  0.2 Seconds, (Short Period Acceleration)           SS = 147.2                  SMS = 176.6

      1.0 Seconds (Long Period Acceleration)          S1 = 55.1                  SM1 = 79.9


The IBC design accelerations (SDS and SD1) are based on multiplying the above accelerations
(SMS and SM1) for the MCE event by two-thirds (⅔).

The SDS of 117.7 corresponds to the IRC seismic design category D2.

5.8.5    Liquefaction

Liquefaction is defined as the condition when saturated, loose, finer-grained sand-type soils lose
their support capabilities because of excessive pore water pressure which develops during a
seismic event.

Due to the shallow bedrock and cohesive soils encountered at the site liquefaction is not
anticipated to occur during the design seismic event.

5.9      CEMENT TYPES

The laboratory tests indicate that the site soils contain negligible amounts of water-soluble
sulfates. Therefore, all concrete which will be in contact with the site soils may be prepared
using standard Type I cement.

5.10     WATER CONTROL

To reduce the possibility of water infiltration into potentially expansive soils, as a minimum the
following are recommended:

         1.       There should be a minimum 2 percent downward slope maintained away from
                  the building for a distance of at least 15 feet.

         2.       Water discharged from downspouts must be collected and discharged downslope
                  at least 15 feet from the proposed structure.




                                                                                               Page 16
__s_r.ee•n-H•o•m•e•s----------------- ~G ■                                    2
                                                                                         GORDON
                                                                                         GEOTECHNICAL
  Job No. 224 -023 - 19                                                 ■                ENGINEERING, INC.
  Updated Geotechnical Study
  August 14, 2020



          3.     All water-conveying utilities should be checked for leakage prior to backfilling and
                 installed with flexible connections and joints.

          4.     Sprinkler heads should not be installed around the immediate perimeter of the
                 structure .

  5.11    SITE OBSERVATIONS

  A qualified geotechnical engineer from our staff must aid in verifying that suitable block and ash
  bedrock has been encountered prior to the placement of structural site grading fills, footings, or
  foundations.



  We appreciate the opportunity of providing this service for you. If you have any questions or
  require additional information, please do not hesitate to contact us.
                                                                                             •:\,;.\\\\'..\tlu
                                                                                        ,·      .,e;~/.l't -11:
                                                                                  ..;,.-:- ,:;.(;;r~..,., .Jjl..1,,,, :;.
  Respectfully submitted,                                                        '< ,·•, ·-"
                                                                              ,;~')      ".:~. ~.- .t'~
                                                                             ·;, \.:' -· ff 1L/ · o     z e~_\
                                                                                                    .,,. ••~,..




                                                                                                        . ,., ..... ~
                                                                                             fa. 7MHiQ ·\~:;.
  Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.              Reviewed by:                                                       it   -r ..
                                                                                                        It r:1
                                                                                                       f.f\   I   ft
                                                                                                                        I _;. '
                                                                                                                        '.._ •!     ._

                                                                                                         "§                       ,'c




  J   an K. Culp, State of Utah No. 10975604         Patrick R. Emery, State of
  Project Engineer                                   Senior Engineer

  JKC/PRE:sn


  Encl.   Figure 1,       Vicinity Map
          Figure 2,       Area Map
          Figure 3,       Recommended Buildable Area
          Figures 4A      through 4D, Log of Test Pits
          Figure 5,       Unified Soil Classification System
          Figure 6,       Photographs
          Appendix A,     Laboratory Results, Bearing Capacity/Settlement Calculations

  Addressee (5 + email)




                                                                                                                       Page 17
                                                                         GORDON
                                                                 G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                     2

                                                                         ENGINEERING, INC.



                                        References

Blake, T.F., Hollingsworth, R.A. and Stewart, J.P., Editors (2002), Recommended Procedures
for Implementation of DMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for analyzing and mitigating
landslide hazards in California: organized by the Southern California Earthquake Center,
available for download at: http://www.scec.org/resources/catalog/hazardmitigation.html#land.

Biek, R.F. (2005) Geologic map of the Lehi quadrangle and part of the Timpanogos Cave
quadrangle, Salt Lake and Utah Counties, Utah: 2 pl. 2005 Utah Geological Survey, scale
1:24,000

G2, 2016, Geotechnical Study, Proposed Residential Structure, 14812 South Oak Bluff Place,
Draper, Utah: Unpublished Consultants report, 21p., plates.




                                                                                      Page 18
BREEN HOMES
JOB NO. 224-023-19




                     DRAPER




                                         SITE




           SCALE IN FEET
   1000      0      1000   2000




 REFERENCE:
                                                  FIGURE 1
 USGS 7.5 MINUTE TOPOGRAPHIC QUADRANGLE MAPS
 TITLED “LEHI, UTAH”, DATED 1994 AND
 “DRAPER, UTAH”, DATED 1994
                                                VICINITY MAP
BREEN HOMES
JOB NO. 224-023-19




                                                                                                               A’




                                                                                                                                      KEY
                                                                                                                              Site Boundary
                                                                                                                              Approximate Trench Location
                                        “Recommended Buildable Area”
                                              (Based on Bedrock
                                                                       SITE                                                   Slope Stability Line A-A’ Location
                                            Projected to be Within
                                            15 Feet of the Surface)                                                           Recommended Buildable Area



                                                                                        #1




                                                                                             PROPOSED    #3
                                                                                             STRUCTURE




                                                                                        #2




                                                                                                              OA
                                                                                                               K
                                                                                                               BL
                                                                                                                    UF
                                                                                                                     F
  ## see Figure 6, Photographs




                                                                                                                     PL
                                                                                                                         AC
                                                                                                                          E
REFERENCE:
ADAPTED FROM AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH
DOWNLOADED FROM 2020 GOOGLE EARTH
IMAGERY DATED JULY 18, 2019         A                                                                                                   FIGURE 2
                                                                              SCALE:                                                    AREA MAP
                                                                               100 ft
BREEN HOMES
JOB NO. 224-023-19                                                                                                                         A’


                        “Recommended Buildable Area”
                              (Based on Bedrock
                            Projected to be Within
                            15 Feet of the Surface)
                                                                                                         TP-2                     TP-3
                                                                        17.0’+
                                                                        TP-3A
                                                        5.0’
                                                       TP-2A




                                                                                                    PROPOSED
                                                                                                    STRUCTURE




                                                                                     LIV
                                                                                       V
                                                                                      IING




                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                                                                           AB
                                                                                             OV
                                                                                                E




                                                                                                                                                                           OA
                                                                                 12.0’




                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                 TP-4A




                                                                                                                                                                               K
                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                   BL
                                                                                                                    TP-1




                                                                                                                                                                                       UF
                                                                                                                                                                           S
                     SITE




                                                                                                                                                                                           F
                                                                                                                                                                       S




                                                                                                         DE




                                                                                                                                                                                           PL
                                                                                                           CK
                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                             BO
                                                                                                               VE




                                                                                                                                                                                               AC
                                                                                                                                                                               S




                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                14.0’
                                                               TP-1A                                                                         KEY
                                                                                                                                     Site Boundary
                                                                                                                                     Approximate Trench Location
                                                                                                                                     Test Pit Locations (2016 Study)
                                 A                                                                                                   Test Pit Locations (This Study)
                                                                                                                                     Slope Stability Line A-A’ Location


                                                                                                                           X.X’
                                                                                                                                     Recommended Buildable Area
                                                                                                                                                                                       FIGURE 3
REFERENCE:                                                                                                                           Depth to Bedrock
ADAPTED FROM DRAWING ENTITLED
“GRADING AND UTILITY PLAN C.101 PLA.010”                           20
                                                                        SCALE IN FEET
                                                                          0      20                 40                                                                                 SITE PLAN
BY GILSON ENGINEERING, DATED APRIL 2020
         Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.                                                                                                                                        TEST PIT TP-1A
         4426 South Century Drive, Suite 100
         Salt Lake City, Utah 84123                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page: 1 of 1


Project Name: Prop. Residential Structure, Lot 27, Oak Vista #1                                Project No.: 224-023-19
Location: 14812 Oak Bluff Place, Draper, Utah                                                  Client: Breen Homes
Excavating Method: JCB 4CX Backhoe                                                             Date Excavated: 03-12-20
Elevation: ---                                                                                 Water Level: No groundwater encountered.
Remarks:




                                                                                                                                                                                       DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLASTIC LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                                             SAMPLE SYMBOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           % PASSING 200
                                                                                                 WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                                             SAMPLE TYPE



                                                                                                                                                                       MOISTURE (%)
                                                                                 GRAPHIC LOG



                                                                                                               DEPTH (FT.)




                                                                                                                                                           BLOWS/FT.
                               DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REMARKS




   FAT CLAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       moist
   with some fine sand and fine gravel; major root (topsoil) to 3"; waxy;                                                                                                                                                                                         "very stiff"
   reddish-brown (CH)




                                                                                                                 5




                                                                                                                 10




   INDURATED BLOCK AND ASH BEDROCK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                slightly moist
   light gray (BEDROCK)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "hard"
                                                                                                                 15



            Stopped excavating at 15.0'.

            No groundwater encountered at time of excavating.

            No signficant sidewall caving.


                                                                                                                 20




                                                                                                                 25

The discussion in the text under the section titled, SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS, is
necessary for a proper understanding of the nature of the subsurface material.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIGURE 4A
         Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.                                                                                                                                        TEST PIT TP-2A
         4426 South Century Drive, Suite 100
         Salt Lake City, Utah 84123                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page: 1 of 1


Project Name: Prop. Residential Structure, Lot 27, Oak Vista #1                                Project No.: 224-023-19
Location: 14812 Oak Bluff Place, Draper, Utah                                                  Client: Breen Homes
Excavating Method: JCB 4CX Backhoe                                                             Date Excavated: 03-12-20
Elevation: ---                                                                                 Water Level: No groundwater encountered.
Remarks:




                                                                                                                                                                                       DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLASTIC LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                                             SAMPLE SYMBOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           % PASSING 200
                                                                                                 WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                                             SAMPLE TYPE



                                                                                                                                                                       MOISTURE (%)
                                                                                 GRAPHIC LOG



                                                                                                               DEPTH (FT.)




                                                                                                                                                           BLOWS/FT.
                               DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REMARKS




   FAT CLAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       moist
   with some fine sand and fine gravel; major root (topsoil) to 3"; waxy;                                                                                                                                                                                         "very stiff"
   reddish-brown (CH)




                                                                                                                 5
   INDURATED BLOCK AND ASH BEDROCK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                slightly moist
   light gray (BEDROCK)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "hard"




            Stopped excavating at 8.0'.                                                                          10

            No groundwater encountered at time of excavating.

            No signficant sidewall caving.




                                                                                                                 15




                                                                                                                 20




                                                                                                                 25

The discussion in the text under the section titled, SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS, is
necessary for a proper understanding of the nature of the subsurface material.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIGURE 4B
         Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.                                                                                                                                        TEST PIT TP-3A
         4426 South Century Drive, Suite 100
         Salt Lake City, Utah 84123                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page: 1 of 1


Project Name: Prop. Residential Structure, Lot 27, Oak Vista #1                                Project No.: 224-023-19
Location: 14812 Oak Bluff Place, Draper, Utah                                                  Client: Breen Homes
Excavating Method: JCB 4CX Backhoe                                                             Date Excavated: 03-12-20
Elevation: ---                                                                                 Water Level: No groundwater encountered.
Remarks:




                                                                                                                                                                                       DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLASTIC LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                                             SAMPLE SYMBOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           % PASSING 200
                                                                                                 WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                                             SAMPLE TYPE



                                                                                                                                                                       MOISTURE (%)
                                                                                 GRAPHIC LOG



                                                                                                               DEPTH (FT.)




                                                                                                                                                           BLOWS/FT.
                               DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REMARKS




   FAT CLAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       moist
   with some fine sand and fine gravel; major root (topsoil) to 3"; waxy;                                                                                                                                                                                         "very stiff"
   reddish-brown (CH)




                                                                                                                 5




                                                                                                                 10




                                                                                                                 15




            Stopped excavating at 17.0' due to maximum reach.
                                                                                                                 20
            No groundwater encountered at time of excavating.

            No signficant sidewall caving.




                                                                                                                 25

The discussion in the text under the section titled, SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS, is
necessary for a proper understanding of the nature of the subsurface material.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIGURE 4C
         Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.                                                                                                                                        TEST PIT TP-4A
         4426 South Century Drive, Suite 100
         Salt Lake City, Utah 84123                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page: 1 of 1


Project Name: Prop. Residential Structure, Lot 27, Oak Vista #1                                Project No.: 224-023-19
Location: 14812 Oak Bluff Place, Draper, Utah                                                  Client: Breen Homes
Excavating Method: JCB 4CX Backhoe                                                             Date Excavated: 03-12-20
Elevation: ---                                                                                 Water Level: No groundwater encountered.
Remarks:




                                                                                                                                                                                       DRY DENSITY (PCF)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLASTIC LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                                             SAMPLE SYMBOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIQUID LIMIT (%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           % PASSING 200
                                                                                                 WATER LEVEL




                                                                                                                                             SAMPLE TYPE



                                                                                                                                                                       MOISTURE (%)
                                                                                 GRAPHIC LOG



                                                                                                               DEPTH (FT.)




                                                                                                                                                           BLOWS/FT.
                               DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REMARKS




   FAT CLAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       moist
   with some fine sand and fine gravel; major root (topsoil) to 3"; waxy;                                                                                                                                                                                         "very stiff"
   reddish-brown (CH)




                                                                                                                 5




                                                                                                                 10


   INDURATED BLOCK AND ASH BEDROCK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                slightly moist
   light gray (BEDROCK)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "hard"



            Stopped excavating at 12.0'.

            No groundwater encountered at time of excavating.                                                    15

            No signficant sidewall caving.




                                                                                                                 20




                                                                                                                 25

The discussion in the text under the section titled, SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS, is
necessary for a proper understanding of the nature of the subsurface material.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIGURE 4D
FIGURE 5
BREEN HOMES
JOB NO. 224-023-19




#1 View of Test Pits TP-1A and TP-3A.             #2 View of Test Pit TP-1A.




 #3 Looking west across the site.




                                                                FIGURE 6
Locations and direction, see Figure 2, Area Map               PHOTOGRAPHS
                                           GORDON
                                  G
                                      2
                                           GEOTECHNICAL
                                           ENGINEERING, INC.




             APPENDIX A


          Laboratory Results,

Bearing Capacity/Settlement Calculations
Liquid Limit, Plastic Limit, and Plasticity Index of Soils
(ASTM D4318)                                                                                                                                    © IGES 2004, 2020

  Project: Gordon Geotech                                                                                 Boring No.: T-1
      No: M02106-014 (224-023-19)                                                                            Sample:
 Location: Lot 27 Oak Vista                                                                                   Depth: 27.5'
    Date: 1/14/2020                                                                                       Description: Brown fat clay
      By: BRR
 Grooving tool type: Plastic                                             Preparation method: Wet
 Liquid limit device: Mechanical                                     Liquid limit test method: Multipoint
    Rolling method: Hand                                                Screened over No.40: Yes
                                                                   Larger particles removed: Wet sieved
                                                           Approximate maximum grain size: No.10
                                                        Estimated percent retained on No.40: Not requested
Plastic Limit                                                As-received water content (%): Not requested
            Determination No                             1         2
           Wet Soil + Tare (g)                        13.04     13.89
           Dry Soil + Tare (g)                        11.75     12.45
               Water Loss (g)                          1.29      1.44
                      Tare (g)                         7.07      7.15
                 Dry Soil (g)                          4.68      5.30
         Water Content, w (%)                         27.56     27.17
Liquid Limit
            Determination No                             1                              2              3
          Number of Drops, N                            32                             23             17
           Wet Soil + Tare (g)                        12.94                          15.78          13.50
           Dry Soil + Tare (g)                        10.65                          12.67          11.00
               Water Loss (g)                          2.29                           3.11           2.50
                      Tare (g)                         7.10                           7.95           7.41
                 Dry Soil (g)                          3.55                           4.72           3.59
         Water Content, w (%)                         64.51                          65.89          69.64
                                 One-Point LL (%)                                        65


                      Liquid Limit, LL (%)            66
                      Plastic Limit, PL (%)           27
                    Plasticity Index, PI (%)          39
                    70                                                          60
                                        Flow Curve                                            Plasticity Chart
                    69                                                                                                               U-Line
                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                CH              A-Line
                    68
                                                                                40
Water content (%)




                                                           Plastic Index (PI)




                    67
                                                                                30
                    66                 LL = 66
                                                                                                                                         MH
                                                                                20
                    65                                                                                         CL

                    64                                                          10
                                                                                               CL-ML                ML
                    63                                                          0
                         10                          100                             0        10    20    30     40    50    60    70     80     90   100
                              Number of drops, N                                                                 Liquid Limit (LL)
Entered by:___________
Reviewed:___________                                                                     Z:\PROJECTS\M02106_Gordon_Geotechnical\014_Lot_27_Oak_Vista\[ALv2.xlsm]1
Direct Shear Test for Soils Under Drained Conditions
(ASTM D3080)                                                                                                                                                                       © IGES 2009, 2020

 Project: Gordon Geotechnical                                                                                                        Boring No.: T-1
     No: M02106-014 (224-023-19)                                                                                                        Sample:
Location: Lot 27 Oak Vista                                                                                                               Depth: 35'
   Date: 1/10/2020                                                                                                         Sample Description: Brown clay with sand
      By: EH                                                                               Sample type: Undisturbed-trimmed from thin-wall
                               Test type: Inundated
         Lateral displacement (in.):                  0.3
                 Shear rate (in./min):          0.0009
                 Specific gravity, Gs:              2.70 Assumed
                                                               Sample 1                Sample 2
                       Nominal normal stress (psf)               4000                     1000
                               Peak shear stress (psf)           2256                     1401
                Lateral displacement at peak (in)                0.087                   0.022
                                Load Duration (min)              1024                     1046
                                                          Initial Pre-shear       Initial    Pre-shear
                                   Sample height (in) 0.996            0.980      0.996         0.993
                                Sample diameter (in) 2.416             2.416      2.420         2.420
                              Wt. rings + wet soil (g) 184.57         189.16     186.47        189.64
                                         Wt. rings (g) 45.31           45.31      41.91         41.91
                                   Wet soil + tare (g) 223.45                    223.45
                                   Dry soil + tare (g) 204.21                    204.21
                                               Tare (g) 126.97                   126.97
                                   Water content (%)       24.9         29.0       24.9          27.6
                                Dry unit weight (pcf)      93.0         94.5       96.2          96.5
                     Void ratio, e, for assumed Gs         0.81         0.78       0.75          0.75
                                      Saturation (%)*      82.8        100.0       89.5         100.0
                                 ' (deg)        16                  Average of 2 samples Initial       Pre-shear
                                 c' (psf)      1116                      Water content (%)       24.9     28.3
*Pre-shear saturation set to 100% for phase calculations              Dry unit weight (pcf)      94.6     95.5
                               2500
 Nominal shear stress (psf)




                                                                                                                        4000
                               2000

                               1500
                                                                                                            4000 psf    1000 psf
                                                                           Regression Total stress array         Line fit
                                                         2
                               1000                       R =     1.00       Table         m 3000 b             n (psf) f (psf)
                                                                                           Nominal shear stress (psf)




                                             Intercept (b) = 1116.00           m         0.29       1116.00          0.00 1116.00
                                500
                                                 Slope (m) =      0.29       se(n)       0.00         0.00      4400.00 2370.00
                                                     (deg) =    15.91         R2        1.00         0.00
                                   0
                                    0.00    0.05    c (psf)
                                                      0.10  =   1116.00
                                                              0.15     0.20     F
                                                                                0.25   #NUM!
                                                                                        0.30    2000  0.00
                               0.040                                        ss (reg) ########         0.00
                               0.035
 Normal displacement (in)




                                                       Normal stress (psf)   4000        1000
                               0.030
                               0.025
                                                   Peak shear stress (psf)   2256        1401
                               0.020                               Ms (g) 111.4888 111.4888 115.7319 115.7319
                                                                                                1000
                               0.015                           Vt (cm^3) 74.82          73.66        75.07      74.86
                               0.010                           Vs (cm^3) 41.29          41.29        42.86      42.86
                               0.005                          Vw (cm^3) 27.77           32.36        28.83      32.00
                               0.000                          Vv (cm^3) 33.53           32.36        32.21      32.00
                              -0.005                                     e    0.81       0.78      0 0.75        0.75
                              -0.010                                                                  0          1000            2000      3000                                                     4000
                                     0.00   0.05      0.10
                                                               Va
                                                              0.15
                                                                   (cm^3)
                                                                       0.20
                                                                              5.76
                                                                                0.25
                                                                                         0.00
                                                                                        0.30
                                                                                                      3.38       0.00
                                                                        S
                                                 Lateral displacement (in)    0.83       1.00         0.90       1.00
                                                                                                                   Nominal normal stress (psf)
                                                                                                   4000 psf 1000 psf
Comments:
Sample tube contained only enough material for two test specimens. Test specimens swelled at 125, 250, 500, and 1000 psf
load steps.

Entered by:___________
Reviewed:___________                                                                                                           Z:\PROJECTS\M02106_Gordon_Geotechnical\014_Lot_27_Oak_Vista\[DS_GCv4.xlsm]1
Direct Shear Test for Soils Under Drained Conditions
(ASTM D3080)                                                                                       © IGES 2009, 2020

 Project: Gordon Geotechnical                                                    Boring No.: T-1
     No: M02106-014 (224-023-19)                                                    Sample:
Location: Lot 27 Oak Vista                                                           Depth: 35'
         Nominal normal stress = 4000 psf       Nominal normal stress = 1000 psf
            Lateral    Nominal        Normal       Lateral    Nominal        Normal
         Displacement Shear Stress Displacement Displacement Shear Stress Displacement
             (in.)        (psf)         (in.)       (in.)        (psf)          (in.)
            0.002          565         0.017       0.002          144          0.003
            0.005          932         0.017       0.005          227          0.003
            0.007        1187          0.018       0.007          612          0.003
            0.010        1353          0.018       0.010          935          0.002
            0.012        1513          0.019       0.012        1116           0.002
            0.017        1724          0.020       0.017        1321           0.001
            0.022        1879          0.021       0.022        1401           0.001
            0.027        1975          0.022       0.027        1369           0.000
            0.032        2031          0.023       0.032        1237          -0.001
            0.037        2088          0.023       0.037        1123          -0.001
            0.042        2127          0.023       0.042        1019          -0.001
            0.047        2163          0.024       0.047          943         -0.002
            0.052        2192          0.024       0.052          899         -0.002
            0.057        2212          0.025       0.057          864         -0.003
            0.062        2228          0.025       0.062          835         -0.003
            0.067        2235          0.025       0.067          815         -0.003
            0.072        2246          0.026       0.072          798         -0.004
            0.077        2253          0.026       0.077          783         -0.004
            0.082        2253          0.026       0.082          773         -0.004
            0.087        2256          0.026       0.087          762         -0.004
            0.092        2256          0.027       0.092          754         -0.004
            0.097        2253          0.027       0.097          749         -0.005
            0.102        2251          0.027       0.102          749         -0.005
            0.107        2251          0.027       0.107          746         -0.005
            0.112        2248          0.027       0.112          744         -0.005
            0.117        2243          0.028       0.117          743         -0.005
            0.122        2238          0.028       0.122          741         -0.005
            0.127        2233          0.028       0.127          740         -0.005
            0.132        2228          0.029       0.132          738         -0.005
            0.137        2220          0.029       0.137          737         -0.005
            0.142        2217          0.029       0.142          735         -0.005
            0.147        2210          0.029       0.147          734         -0.005
            0.152        2204          0.029       0.152          734         -0.005
            0.157        2197          0.029       0.157          733         -0.006
            0.162        2192          0.030       0.162          732         -0.006
            0.167        2186          0.030       0.167          730         -0.006
            0.172        2181          0.030       0.172          732         -0.006
            0.177        2179          0.030       0.177          731         -0.006
            0.182        2171          0.030       0.182          730         -0.006
            0.187        2168          0.030       0.187          730         -0.006
            0.192        2161          0.031       0.192          728         -0.006
            0.197        2153          0.031       0.197          728         -0.006
            0.202        2148          0.031       0.202          724         -0.006
            0.207        2142          0.031       0.207          721         -0.006
            0.212        2137          0.032       0.212          720         -0.006
            0.217        2135          0.032       0.217          715         -0.006
            0.222        2130          0.032       0.222          712         -0.006
            0.227        2127          0.032       0.227          710         -0.006
            0.232        2117          0.032       0.232          709         -0.006
            0.237        2114          0.033       0.237          708         -0.006
            0.242        2106          0.033       0.242          707         -0.006
            0.247        2104          0.033       0.247          707         -0.006
            0.252        2099          0.033       0.252          706         -0.006
            0.257        2093          0.033       0.257          706         -0.006
            0.262        2091          0.034       0.262          704         -0.006
            0.267        2083          0.034       0.267          702         -0.006
            0.272        2078          0.034       0.272          700         -0.006
            0.277        2070          0.034       0.277          700         -0.006
            0.282        2062          0.035       0.282          700         -0.006
            0.287        2055          0.035       0.287          699         -0.006
            0.292        2044          0.035       0.292          698         -0.006
            0.297        2042          0.035       0.297          701         -0.006
            0.300        2039          0.035       0.299          701         -0.006
Direct Shear Test for Soils Under Drained Conditions
(ASTM D3080)                                                                                             © IGES 2009, 2020

 Project: Gordon Geotechnical                                              Boring No.: T-1
     No: M02106-014 (224-023-19)                                              Sample:
Location: Lot 27 Oak Vista                                                     Depth: 35'

                               0.004

                                                     Gordon Geotechnical
                               0.006
                                                     M02106-014 (224-023-19)
                                                     T-1 @ 35'
                               0.008                 4000 psf
         Displacement (in.)




                               0.010


                               0.012


                               0.014


                               0.016
                                       0     5        10        15         20       25       30              35

                                                                time (min1/2)



                               0.008

                                                        Gordon Geotechnical
                               0.009
                                                        M02106-014 (224-023-19)
                                                        T-1 @ 35'
                               0.010                    4000 psf
          Displacement (in.)




                               0.011

                               0.012

                               0.013

                               0.014

                               0.015
                                       0.1       1                10              100             1000

                                                                time (min)
  Torsional Ring Shear Test to Determine Drained Residual Shear Strength of
  Cohesive Soils (ASTM 6467 )                                                                                                      © IGES 2007, 2020

  Project: Gordon Geotech                                    Boring No.: T-1
      No: M02106-014 (224-023-19)                                Sample:
 Location: Lot 27 Oak Vista                                       Depth: 27.5'
      Date: 1/31/2020                                                                Sample Description: Brown clay
       By: JDF                                                                 Engineering Classification: Not requested

      Sample preparation: Screened over No.40 / remolded near liquid limit             LL (%):   66                CF a (%):                   N/A
                Test type: Residual with multi-staged sample                           PL (%):   27                Gs assum.:                   2.8
    Ring friction remarks: Modified upper platen                                            % Finer No. 200 (tested sample):                   64.1
       Ring shear device: Bromhead type, WF 25850 #1                                                LL, PL = liquid and plastic limits, respectively
                                                                                                    a
      Sample presheared: Yes                                                                        CF = %<0.002 mm and passing No. 10
               Failure surface location: Near top
            inner/outter/avg. dia. (mm)      70         100          85                                  stress     stress    Horz. def     Vert. def
           inner/outter/avg. radii (mm)      35         50          42.5                   Units:        (psf)       (psf)        (deg.)        (in)
         Thickness (mm)/area (cm^2):         5          40.1                          Conversion: 20885.434         2048.2           1       3.94E-05


                                  Sample 1                       Sample 2             Sample 3
                                   Initial             Final      Initial  Final       Initial          Final
         Sample thickness (mm) 4.97                    3.00         4.99   4.98
     Wt. container + wet soil (g) 626.67                          643.40               643.40
               Wt. container (g) 592.75                           603.74               603.74
              Wet soil + tare (g) 61.22                            58.24                58.24           47.47
              Dry soil + tare (g) 46.65                            Multiphased
                                                                   52.07                52.07           40.47
                        Tare (g) 23.69                             30.28                30.28           23.43
             Water content (%) 63.5                   -316.0        28.3   27.0         28.3            41.1
           Dry density (g/cm^3) 1.04                    1.72        1.55   1.55       #######
                 Saturation (%) 100.0                  -14.2         1.0    0.9       #######


                                                     Sample 1 Sample 2 Sample 3
                     Normal load on lever arm (kg)       1            3        7
              Conversion factor (kg/cm^2) to (psf): 2048.1614 2048.1614 2048.1614
               Residual deformation (deg.) 31.677                 26.745     11.949
                        Normal stress (psf) 1002                   2024       4070
                 Residual shear stress (psf) 263                    669       1490
                     Peak shear stress (psf) 305                   692        1523
        Secant residual friction angle (deg) 14.7                  18.3       20.1
           Secant peak friction angle (deg) 16.9                   18.9       20.5
                      Shear rate (deg/min) 0.0274                 0.0274     0.0274
                  Peak friction angle (deg) 20.0
              Residual friction angle (deg) 19.5




Entered by:___________
Reviewed:___________                          Z:\PROJECTS\M02106_Gordon_Geotechnical\014_Lot_27_Oak_Vista\[RingShearV1_3pts_T-1_27.5.xlsx]1
             Torsional Ring Shear Test to Determine Drained Residual Shear Strength of
             Cohesive Soils (ASTM 6467 )                                                                                                                                                 © IGES 2007, 2020



                     1600                                                                                                                  -0.037
                                                     1002 psf
                     1400                            2024 psf
                                                                                1490
                                                     4070 psf
                     1200                                                                                                                  -0.042




                                                                                                                Vertical deflection (in)
Shear stress (psf)




                     1000

                      800                                                                                                                  -0.047

                      600
                                                                                       669
                      400                                                                                                                  -0.052
                                                                                                                                                           1002 psf

                      200                                                                                                                                  2024 psf
                                                                                          263
                                                                                                                                                           4070 psf
                        0                                                                                                                  -0.057
                                      0.1                       1               10                    100                                           0                 1             10             100
                                                    Horizontal deflection / Rotation (deg.)                                                             Horizontal deflection / Rotation (deg.)
             Horizontal deflection (in) = Degrees rotation * 0.0292
                                                   2500



                                                   2000

                                                                                                                                                             1490
                              Shear stress (psf)




                                                   1500



                                                   1000                                         669


                                                    500                 263



                                                      0
                                                          0     500     1000       1500         2000    2500       3000                         3500        4000      4500   5000
                                                                                                  Normal stress (psf)

                                                   2500


                                                   2000

                                                                                                                                                             1490
                       Shear stress (psf)




                                                   1500


                                                   1000                                         669


                                                    500                 263



                                                      0
                                                          0     500    1000       1500       2000    2500       3000                            3500        4000      4500   5000
                                                                                               Normal stress (psf)

                                                                               Z:\PROJECTS\M02106_Gordon_Geotechnical\014_Lot_27_Oak_Vista\[RingShearV1_3pts_T-1_27.5.xlsx]1
Project Name                      Lot 27 Oak Vista                                      JKC                                                                                          6/9/2020

Square Foundation
                                                                        Depth of Footing (ft)= 3.5
                                                                         Depth of Water (ft) = 50            Note if water table was not encountered this number has to be
Assumed Bearing Capacity                     BC= 3500                psf                                     greater than the maximum depth you are calculating pressures for.
            Column Load                       L= 60                  kips
         Width of Footing                     b= 4.14                feet
              Unit Weight                       120                pcf
      Depth         Average                                           Influence                                                                                                  Thickness
     Below           Depth          Average                            of found                                                                                                      of
     Ground          Below            Depth           D/ width           load              P'o      P+P'o    P+P'o)                                   Log ( )      Cc           Depth            Unit             Total
     Surface        Ground           Below            of Found          (from                                   P'o                                                              Increment       Settlement        Settlement
                    Surface         Found * D                           table)
       Feet           Feet             Feet                                %              PSF        PSF                                                                           Inches           Inches           Inches
        0.0            0.0              0.0             0.00             0.00               0          0                                   0.00          0.000       0.010           42.0             0.00             0.00
        3.5            3.8              0.3             0.06             0.92             450        3665                                  8.14          0.911       0.010           6.0              0.05             0.05
        4.0            5.0              1.5             0.36             0.58             600        2639                                  4.40          0.643       0.010           24.0             0.15             0.21
        6.0            7.0              3.5             0.85             0.27             840        1794                                  2.14          0.329       0.010           24.0             0.08             0.29
        8.0            9.5              6.0             1.45             0.12             1140       1577                                  1.38          0.141       0.010           36.0             0.05             0.34
       11.0           11.8              8.3             1.99             0.08             1410       1677                                  1.19          0.075       0.010           18.0             0.01             0.35
       12.5           13.8             10.3             2.48             0.05             1650       1836                                  1.11          0.046       0.010           30.0             0.01             0.37
       15.0           16.3             12.8             3.08             0.04             1950       2073                                  1.06          0.026       0.014           30.0             0.01             0.38
       17.5           20.3             16.8             4.05             0.02             2430       2498                                  1.03          0.012       0.014           66.0             0.01             0.39
       23.0           24.0             20.5             4.95             0.01             2880       2926                                  1.02          0.007       0.014           24.0             0.00             0.39
       25.0           26.0             22.5             5.43             0.01             3120       3157                                  1.01          0.005       0.014           24.0             0.00             0.39
       27.0           28.0             24.5             5.92             0.01             3360       3388                                  1.01          0.004       0.014           24.0             0.00             0.39
       29.0           30.0             26.5             6.40             0.01             3600       3623                                  1.01          0.003       0.014           24.0             0.00             0.39
       31.0           32.0             28.5             6.88             0.01             3840       3859                                  1.01          0.002       0.014           24.0             0.00             0.40
       33.0           34.0             30.5             7.37             0.01             4080       4098                                  1.00          0.002       0.014           24.0             0.00             0.40

       35.0                                                                                                                                                            Total Settlement            0.40              Inches
    Preload                 0 psf
    Floorslab             200 psf
                    Average                                            Average
                     Depth                                              Depth                                                                                      Bearing Capacity Curves
    P+P'o+Lo        Below             P'o           P'o + Loads        Below                                                                                                    Load (psf)
       ads          Ground                                             Ground           Preconsolidation
                    Surface                                            Surface          Pressures Depth
       PSF            Feet             PSF              PSF              Feet           PSF       Feet                                               0   500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 5000
                                                                                                                                                -5
        0             -4
                                                                                                                                                0
      200              0                0               200                   0
                                                                                                              Depth Below Ground Surface (ft)




      3865           3.75              450              650                 3.75                                                                5
      2839             5               600              800                   5
      1994             7               840              1040                  7                                                                 10
      1777            9.5             1140              1340                 9.5
      1877           11.75            1410              1610                11.75                                                               15
      2036           13.75            1650              1850                13.75
      2273           16.25            1950              2150                16.25                                                               20
      2698           20.25            2430              2630                20.25
                                                                                                                                                25
      3126            24              2880              3080                 24
      3357            26              3120              3320                 26                                                                 30
      3588            28              3360              3560                 28
      3823            30              3600              3800                 30                                                                 35
      4059            32              3840              4040                 32
      4298            34              4080              4280                 34                                                                 40
                                                                                                                                                         Total Pressure Imposed from Footing, Fill, Soil and Floor Slab
        0              0                0                 0                   0
                                                                                                                                                         Normal Pressure w/Depth
                0             0                 0                0                  0
                                                                                                                                                         Preconsolidation Pressure w/depth
                                                                                                                                                         Preconsolidation+ Loads
                                                                                                                                                         Dock Height Fill
BEARING CAPACITY OF SHALLOW FOUNDATIONS
Terzaghi and Vesic Methods

Date              June 9, 2020
Identification    224-023-19

Input                                                   Results
        Units of Measurement                                                 Terzaghi
                                     E SI or E                    Bearing Capacity
                                                                     q ult =   20,048 lb/ft^2
        Foundation Information                                         qa=       6,683 lb/ft^2
          Shape                  CO SQ, CI, CO, or RE
             B=                  1.5 ft                           Allowable Wall Load
             L=                      ft                                P/b =        10 k/ft
             D=                  2.5 ft

        Soil Information
                c=                 0 lb/ft^2
              phi =               36 deg
        gamma =                  125 lb/ft^3
             Dw =                 50 ft

        Factor of Safety
              F=                     3

Copyright 2000 by Donald P. Coduto
                                                                                      GORDON
                                                                              G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                                  2

                                                                                      ENGINEERING, INC.



       August 26, 2020
       Job No. 224-023-19

       Breen Homes
       1175 Westminster Avenue
       Salt Lake City, Utah 84105

       Attention: Mr. Adam Breen

       Ladies and Gentlemen:

       Re:      Revision No. 1
                Response to Review
                Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                Proposed Residential Structure
                Lot 27, Oak Vista No. 1 at Suncrest
                14812 South Oak Bluff Place
                Draper, Utah


       This letter presents Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc. (G2) response to the Draper City
       reviews of our geological hazards, geotechnical and slope stability study for the above
       referenced property dated June 9, 2020. The geological review for this submitted study was
       provided by Simon Associates (SA) dated July 21, 2020, on behalf of Draper City (Draper City
       Case No: SUBD-000980-2020). Following are the SA review comments and our responses. A
       reissued Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis report, that
       includes revisions and edits in response to the SA comments will be prepared to accompany
       this review.

       SA Comment 1

       1. Section 9-19-100 G of the Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance stipulates the minimum
          items all geologic hazards reports must include. Item (2) in Section 9-19-100 G of the Draper
          City Geologic Hazards Ordinance mandates all geologic hazards reports shall include, at a
          minimum:

                “A detailed site map of the subject area, at a scale equal to or more detailed than one
                inch equals 200 feet (1” = 200’), showing the locations of subsurface investigations and
                site-specific geologic mapping performed as part of the geologic investigation, including
                boundaries and features related to any geologic hazards, topography, and drainage.

Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.                                                           Tel: 801-327-9600
4426 South Century Drive, Suite 100                                                             Fax: 801-327-9601
Salt Lake City, Utah 84123                                                                 www.gordongeotech.com


GEOLOGICAL ENGINEERING                  GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING                  ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
Breen Homes
                                                                                GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                        G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                            2
Response to Review
                                                                                ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



        The site map must show the location and boundaries of the property, geologic hazards,
        delineation of any recommended setback distances from hazards, and recommended
        locations for structures. Buildable and non-buildable areas shall be clearly identified;”
        note this map is generally referred to as a site geologic map or site-specific geologic
        map.

During the November 25, 2019, Scoping Meeting, Draper City requested all bedding, jointing,
and other geologic structures are shown on the site plan and/or geologic map, (see Item 12,
SA, 2019a). Presumably Figure 5, Site Details, of the June 9, 2020, G2 report, is intended to
fulfill Section 9-19-100 G(2) of the Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance. If SA’s
presumption is correct, SA recommends Draper City require G2 to depict the following on
Figure 5 of the June 9, 2020, G2 report:

   a.   Boundaries and features related to any geologic hazards, topography, and drainage;
   b.   Recommended setback distances from hazards;
   c.   Recommended locations for structures;
   d.   Buildable and non-buildable areas, and;
   e.   Geologic units documented during the investigative, including surficial units such as fill
        and colluvium.
   f.   Bedding, jointing, and other geologic structures.

G2 Response/Action Comment 1.a.

Geologic contact Tva – Tvb, drawn as block failure head scarp on Figure 5. The Boundaries of
the critical failure surface have been drawn on Line A-A’ on Figure 5.

G2 Response/Action Comment 1.b.

Mappable hazard features named in the Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance including
surface fault rupture; liquefaction hazards; alluvial fan processes including debris-flow; rockfall
and avalanche hazards, and flood hazards, are not present on the site vicinity, thus setbacks for
these hazards are not shown on Figure 5.

G2 Response/Action Comment 1.c.

The location for the structure shown on Figure 5, has been re-drawn based on Gilson
Engineering (2020) placement.

G2 Response/Action Comment 1.d.

“Recommended Building Area” envelope added to Figure 5, has been drawn showing areas of
the property where the bedrock is projected within 15 feet of surface, and proposed structure



                                                                                               Page 2
Breen Homes
                                                                              GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                      G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                          2
Response to Review
                                                                              ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



can be feasibly be placed on Tv-b - Teritary volcanics - indurated block and ash deposits, that
are located below the block failure slide plane.

G2 Response/Action Comment 1.f. and 1.e.

Surficial fills mapping, and the covered bedding contacts to the Tv-a - Teritary volcanics –
weathered ash deposits have been added to Figure 5.

Should Figure 5 of the June 9, 2020, G2 report not be intended to fulfill Section 9-19-100 G(2) of
the Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance, SA recommends Draper City require G2 to submit
a site-specific geologic map fulfilling Section 9-19-100 G(2) of the Draper City Geologic Hazards
Ordinance.

G2 Response/Action Comment 1.

Title of Figure 5 changed from Site Details to Site Geologic Map.

SA Comment 2

2. On page 7 of the June 9, 2020, G2 report (Section 3.3, Field Program), G2 states, “To
   document the observed exposures in the trench, a geologic log of the subsurface conditions
   encountered was drawn. Detailed graphical representations of the subsurface conditions
   encountered are presented in Figure 6, Log of Trench…” The following items should be
   addressed in Figure 6.

   a. Station 0+00 corresponds to the west end of the trench. Figure 6 depicts Station 0+00 as
      the east end of the trench. SA recommends Draper City request G2 address the
      apparent discrepancy.
   b. SA recommends Draper City request G2 depict the orientation of the trench.
   c. SA recommends Draper City request G2 include an explanation/description for
      “Deformation Zone.”
   d. At about Station 0+60, the contact between Units 3 and 2A/2B is undefined. SA
      recommends Draper City request G2 address the apparent discrepancy.
   e. Between about Stations 0+41 and 0+59 the contact between Units 2A and 2B is a
      dashed line. SA recommends Draper City request G2 explain the dashed line.
   f. The baseline (0 feet) of the vertical scale on the part of the log from Stations 0+00 to
      0+50 does not match the baseline (0 feet) of the vertical scale on the part of the log from
      Stations 0+50 to 0+85.

SA recommends Draper City request G2:

   i.   Address the apparent discrepancy.



                                                                                            Page 3
Breen Homes
                                                                              GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                     G        GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                         2
Response to Review
                                                                              ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



     ii. Start the baseline (0 feet) at Station 0+00 which is the highest elevation on the trench
         log.

G2 Response/Action Comment 2.a., 2.b. and 2.i.

Cardinal directions (East- West), and trench bearing (59°) added to Figure 6 Log of Trench.

G2 Response/Action Comment 2.c.

Descriptive annotation added to “Deformed Zone” on to Figure 6.

G2 Response/Action Comment 2.d.

Not a discrepancy, the contact between the Units 3 and 2A/2B was observed to be truncated by
the overlying “Soil A-B Horizon with Vertical Structures” on Figure 6.

G2 Response/Action Comment 2.e.

Notation “(dashed line on log represents diffuse boundary between 2A and 2B)” added to
Explanation on Figure 6.

G2 Response/Action Comment 2.f., and 2.ii.

Vertical scale amended on Figure 6 with 0 baseline to start at STA 00 East.

SA Comment 3

3.   On page 10 of the June 9, 2020, G2 report (Section 4.3 Subsurface Soil and Groundwater),
     G2 states, “Along the Unit 1 and Unit 2A boundary, an approximately four-inch zone of
     deformed Unit 1 material, coated with a thin FeOX (iron oxide) vein was observed. This
     boundary was interpreted during field review as a possible slope failure boundary, with
     block failure movement occurring between Unit 1 and Units 2A and 2B. The 14- to 18-
     degree dips observed in Units 2A and 2B are believed to be a result of back-tilting, as a
     result of this possible block failure movement.”

On pages 13 and 14 of the June 9, 2020, G2 report (Section 5.5, Landsliding and
Slope Stability), G2 states,

        “The soil and rock encountered in our trench shown in Figure 6, and described in
         Section 3.3, was interpreted as a possible slope failure boundary, with block failure
         movement occurring between Unit 1 and Units 2A and 2B.”
        “… we presume the possible slope failure boundary observed in the trench is the result
         of block failure movement.”


                                                                                           Page 4
Breen Homes
                                                                              GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                      G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                          2
Response to Review
                                                                              ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



   a. G2’s use of "possible," when interpreting geologic features denotes there are at least
      two possible explanations for the particular geologic feature. SA recommends Draper
      City request G2 discuss the alternate explanation for the geologic slope failure boundary
      discussed on pages 10 and 13 of the June 9, 2020, G2 report.

   b. G2’s use of "possible" and” presume,” when interpreting geologic features denotes a
      degree of uncertainty, perhaps conclusions based on conjecture, rather than conclusions
      based on adequate data (see Section 9-19-100 G(6) in the Draper City Geologic
      Hazards Ordinance. SA recommends Draper City require all G2 conclusions:

       i    Be supported by adequate data, including additional field investigation data if
       deemed appropriate,

       ii.     Be clearly presented in the Consultant report.

G2 Response/Action Comment 3

The adjective “possible” will be removed from our discussion of the block failure interpretation in
our text; however, the term “presume” will be remain because our conclusions are based upon
data and observations and not assumptions.

SA Comment 4

4. On page 14 of the June 9, 2020, G2 report (Section 5.5, Landsliding and Slope Stability), G2
   states, “Because our review of the historic [sic. historical] (predevelopment 1958 and 1962)
   aerial photography and LiDAR analysis (2014) did not reveal diagnostic arcuate rotational
   morphology indicative of typical rotation slumping (Varnes, 1978), we presume the possible
   slope failure boundary observed in the trench is the result of block failure movement.” SA
   recommends Draper City request G2 provide:

   a. The 1958 and 1962 photographs (electronic images would be adequate).
   b. A 1958 and a1962 photograph depicting the subject property.

G2 Response/Action Comment 4.

The 1958 and 1962 with the subject property have been added to the report on Figure 8,
1958 Aerial Photography, and Figure 9, 1962 Aerial Photography.

SA Comment 5

5. On page 14 of the June 9, 2020, G2 report (Section 5.5, Landsliding and Slope Stability), G2
   states, “The strike of this movement is believed to be elongated northwest to southeast and
   parallel with the geological contact shown on Figure 5, also and parallel with the local


                                                                                             Page 5
Breen Homes
                                                                               GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                       G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                           2
Response to Review
                                                                               ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



   controlling ridge and valley structure on the west side of the Oak Bluff Place street. The
   sense of movement is down to the northeast. This topographic structure is best visualized
   on the LiDAR imagery in Figure 4.”

   a. SA recommends Draper City request G2 provide their data to support the statement,
      “The strike of this movement is believed to be elongated northwest to southeast and
      parallel with the geological contact shown on Figure 5, also and parallel with the local
      controlling ridge and valley structure on the west side of the Oak Bluff Place street.”
   b. SA recommends Draper City request G2 annotate Figure 4 in the June 9, 2020, to
      depict:

   i.      The strike of the movement believed to be northwest to southeast, and parallel with
           the geological contact shown in Figure 5,
   ii.     ii. The strike of the movement believed to be parallel with the local controlling ridge
           and valley structure on the west side of the Oak Bluff Place street.
   iii.    The sense of movement documented to be down to the northeast.

G2 Response/Action Comment 5.

The head scarp and direction of block failure movement have been added to Figure 4, as
directed by the reviewer.

SA Comment 6

6. On page 14 of the June 9, 2020, G2 report (Section 5.5, Landsliding and Slope Stability), G2
   states, “The Figure 7 cross-section illustrates slope gradients and projected soil, rock, and
   groundwater conditions, and the possible failure boundary to be used in our slope global
   slope stability calculations for the site.” SA recommends Draper City require G2:

           a. Label all lines in Figure 7 in the June 9, 2020 report.
           b. Depict apparent bedding in Figure 7 in the June 9, 2020 report.
           c. Depict landslide boundaries in Figure 7 in the June 9, 2020 report.

G2 Response/Action Comment 6.

The “Proposed Structure Location” has been amended; the landslide boundaries have been
drawn and a “Failure Plane” label added; and bedding layers have been added to Figure 7.

SA Comment 7

7. SA recommends Draper City request G2 provide a statement regarding the suitability of the
   proposed development from a geologic hazard perspective.



                                                                                              Page 6
Breen Homes
                                                                              GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                      G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                          2
Response to Review
                                                                              ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



G2 Response/Action Comment 7.

The statement:

   “We believe that if the proposed dwelling is structurally placed upon the Tv-b - Teritary
   volcanics - indurated block and ash deposits, and penetrates the overlying Tv-a - Teritary
   volcanics - weathered ash deposits, the site will be suitable for the proposed development
   from a geologic hazard perspective.”

   …has been added to the Conclusions section of our reissued report.

SA Comment 8

8. Section 9-19-100 (A) of the Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance stipulates “All geologic
   hazards reports shall include the original or wet signature and professional seal, both in blue
   ink, of the qualified professional. Geologic hazards reports co-prepared by professional
   geologists and engineers must include both professionals’ original signature and seal in blue
   ink.”

SA recommends Draper City require the June 9, 2020, G2 report include both
professionals’ original signature and seal in blue ink.

G2 Response/Action Comment 6.

Original or wet signature of both the professional geologist and engineer will be included on our
reissued report.




                                                                                            Page 7
Breen Homes
                                                                      - ■ GORDON
                                                                      ■ii ENGINEERING, INC.
                                                                      ■ G2       GEOTECHNICAL
Job No. 224-023-19
Response to Review
August 26, 2020



CLOSURE

If you have any questions or would like to discuss these items further, please feel free to contact
us at (801) 327-9600.



Respectfully submitted ,

Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, I                                And,




Gregory C. Schl~f b;i~
State of Utah No. 522t ~ ,
                                                                  Patrick R. Emery, P.E.
                                                                  State of Utah No. 794171 0
Senior Geologist                                                  Senior Geotechnical Engineer

                                                                  And,




                                                                                        !J
                                                                  Jordan K. Culp , P.E.
                                                                  State of Utah No. 10975604
                                                                  Staff Engineering Geologist

GCS/PRE/JKC:sn


Encl.   Figure   4,   LiDAR Analysis
        Figure   5,   Site Geologic Map
        Figure   6,   Log of Trench
        Figure   7,   Slope A-A ' Geologic Cross-Section
        Figure   8,   1958 Aerial Photography
        Figure   9,   1962 Aerial Photography

Addressee (email only)




                                                                                             Page 8
                                                                         GORDON
                                                                 G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                     2

                                                                         ENGINEERING, INC.

References:


G2, 2020, Updated Geotechnical Study, Proposed Residential Structure, Lot 27, Oak
Vista No. 1 at Suncrest, 14812 South Oak Bluff Place Draper, Utah: Unpublished
Consultants report, 21p., plates.

G2, 2016, Geotechnical Study, Proposed Residential Structure, 14812 South Oak Bluff
Place, Draper, Utah: Unpublished Consultants report, 21p., plates.

Gilson, 2020, Civil Plans, Vrontikis Residential Site; 14812 S. Oak Bluff Place, Draper,
Utah: Unpublished engineering plans, plates.




                                                                                  Page 9
Greater Than 30 Percent Slopes




                             FIGURE 4
                          LiDAR ANALYSIS
Lot #27 Oak Vista at Suncrest
Job No. 224-023-19                                                                                              South Wall of Trench                                                                            West
                                                      STA East (ft)                                               (Bearing 59º NE)                                                           STA East
                                                          50                          40                      30                           20                            10                    00
                                                           +                          +                       +                            +                             +                      +
                                                 +0
                                                                                                                                                              Thin FeOx Vein
                                                                                                              Soil A-B Horizon
                                                                                                        With Vertical Structures

                                                 -5
                                                                  Weak Soil Horizon                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                               Line
                                Vertical Scale




                                                 -10
                                                             4                                                                                                                 EXPLANATION
                                                                                                                                                                                  1    Unit 1, Clay to Sand matrix SM/GM with angular Gravel and
                                                                                                                                                                                       Cobbles (matrix supported), light yellowish brown, dry, very
                                                                                           B Tw                                                                                        dense to indurated; with massive structure (Volcanic block and
                                                 -15                                                                                                                                   ash) ...with:
                                                                                                   2A                  B Tw
                                                                                                                                                                                              Andestie block
                                                                                                                      Deformed Zone
                                                             2B
                                                                                                                      ~4.0-inch zone of laminate                                              Rhyolite block
                                                                          B Tw
                                                                                                                      structured Unit 1 material, with
                                                 -20
                                                                            STA 46'                                   upper coated with a thin FeOX
                                                                                                                                                                                  2A   Unit 2A- 2B, Silty Clay CH with trace Sand and Gravel and
                                                                            Strike: 326º                              (iron oxide) vein                                                few Cobbles; reddish brown colored - 2A, and brown colored
                                                                            Dip: 14º                                                                                                   2B (dashed line on log represents diffuse boundary between 2A
                                                                                           South Wall of Trench                                                                   2B   and 2B); fine to medium Sand, fine and coarse Gravel; light
     East
                                                                                             (Bearing 59º NE)                                                                          reddish brown; slightly moist; very stiff; with massive beds
                          STA East (ft)                                                                                                                STA East                        (Volcanic weathered ash beds)
                              90                                       80                         70                       60                            50
                               +                                       +                          +                        +                              +                            Unit 3, Silty Clay CL, with Gravel and Cobbles; dark brown; dry;
                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                             Weak Soil Horizon                                                                                         stiff; sub-angualr particles (Colluvial deposits)
                        -10
                                                            Soil A-B Horizon                                                                                                           Unit 4, Silty Clay CL, with Sand, Gravel and Cobbles; yellowish
                                                                                                                              4                                                   4
                                                      With Vertical Structures                                                                                                         brown; dry; stiff; (Fill deposits)
       Vertical Scale




                                                                                                                                                                  Line            Tw   Thin Wall Soil Sample Location
                        -15                                                                                                                            2A
                                                                                                                                                                                  B    Bulk Soil Sample Location
                                                                                              3

                                                                                                                                   2B

                        -20
                                                                                                              2A                                                                                                                 FIGURE 6
                                                                        Dark brown Unit 2B bed                                          STA 58'                                                                               LOG OF TRENCH
                                                                                                                                        Strike: 355º
                        --25                                                                                                            Dip: 18º
Analysis By: GCS, Checked By PE:5/5/20
                                                                GORDON
                                                       G
                                                           2
                                                                GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                ENGINEERING, INC.




                                 REVISION NO. 2
                                     REPORT
                        GEOLOGIC HAZARD EVALUATION –
                    GEOTECHNICAL SLOPE STABILITY ANALYSIS
                      PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE
                      LOT 27, OAK VISTA NO. 1 AT SUNCREST
                         14812 SOUTH OAK BLUFF PLACE
                                 DRAPER, UTAH




                                                                  August 26, 2020

                                                               Job No. 224-023-19



                                                                   Prepared for:
                                                                    Breen Homes
                                                       1175 Westminster Avenue
                                                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84105



                                                                   Prepared by:
                                            Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.
                                             4426 South Century Drive, Suite 100
                                                     Salt Lake City, Utah 84123
                                                              Tel: 801-327-9600
                                                             Fax: 801-327-9601
                                                       www.gordongeotech.com




GEOLOGICAL ENGINEERING    GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING         ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
                                                                                       GORDON
                                                                               G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                                   2

                                                                                       ENGINEERING, INC.



        August 26, 2020
        Job No. 224-023-19

        Breen Homes
        1175 Westminster Avenue
        Salt Lake City, Utah 84105

        Attention:         Mr. Adam Breen

        Ladies and Gentlemen:

        Re:      Revision No. 2
                 Report
                 Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                 Proposed Residential Structure
                 Lot 27, Oak Vista No. 1 at Suncrest
                 14812 South Oak Bluff Place
                 Draper, Utah


        1.       INTRODUCTION

        1.1      GENERAL

        Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc. (G2) has prepared this report for our Geologic Hazard
        Evaluation and Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis for the proposed single-family home
        construction referenced above. The site is located at 14812 South Oak Bluff Place in Draper,
        Utah, which is located as shown on Figure 1, Vicinity Map. The 0.48-acre development lot
        proposed for the construction is shown on Figure 2, Aerial Coverage. Oak Bluff Place (street)
        affronts the site on the east, with similar single-family development lots located on the north and
        south sides of the site, and open space land to the northwest of the site. The location of the
        proposed single-family home structure and our proposed geological exploration trench for this
        study is also shown on Figure 5, Site Details. It should be noted that the proposed structure
        location may change due to the findings of this study. A previous geotechnical study for the
        property was conducted by our office in 2016 (G2, 2016).

        1.2      DRAPER CITY GEOLOGIC HAZARDS REGULATIONS

        The subject property is located on a moderate to steep sloping hillside area associated with the
        Traverse Maintain Salient, and is within the Draper City Slope Stability Special Study Area,

 Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.                                                            Tel: 801-327-9600
 4426 South Century Drive, Suite 100                                                              Fax: 801-327-9601
 Salt Lake City, Utah 84123                                                                  www.gordongeotech.com


GEOLOGICAL ENGINEERING                   GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING                  ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
Breen Homes
                                                                               GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                     G         GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                           2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                               ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



which as 0a part of the Draper City Geological Hazards Ordinance, requires a
geotechnical/geological study be performed prior to site improvements. The Draper City
Geologic Hazards Ordinance Chapter 9-19-100 Geologic Hazards Reports, specifies that
“…each geologic hazards report shall be site-specific and shall identify all known or suspected
potential geologic hazards, originating on-site or off-site, whether previously identified or
previously unrecognized, that may affect the subject property…” Because the subject site is
within the slope stability investigation zones identified by Draper City, on the 9-19-161-1;
Appendix A, Geologic Hazards Study Area Maps, Plate A-3, Slope Stability Special Study Area
Map, a slope stability analysis and reporting as outlined in 9-19-161-3; Appendix C of the
Ordinance Chapter, Minimum Standards for Slope Stability Analysis shall be performed for the
site evaluation (Draper City, 2020).

Although landsliding has not been mapped on the site (Biek, 2005), we intend to evaluate the
site for its proposed use, and to analyze the existing slope conditions as they pertain to long-
term slope stability of the site.

1.3    OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE

The objectives and scope of our study were planned in discussions between Mr. Adam Breen of
Breen Homes and Mr. Patrick Emery of G2.

In general, the objectives of this study were to:

       1.      Perform a site-specific Geologic Hazards Analysis and Geotechnical Slope
               Stability Analysis compliant with Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance
               Chapter 9-19-100.

In accomplishing these objectives, our scope has included the following:

       1.      Work plan development and methodology for Geologic Hazards / Slope Stability
               site evaluation.

       2.      Schedule Scoping Meeting with Draper City staff, Draper City Engineering, and
               Geology consultants to present and review proposed work plan and secure
               Draper City excavation permit.

       3.      Field program including construction of a 90-foot long by 10-foot deep trench,
               and coordination of field review with Draper City Engineering and Geology
               consultants.

       4.      Geological and Geotechnical analysis including the development of site-specific
               geological cross-sections, and geotechnical slope stability analysis.



                                                                                          Page 2
Breen Homes
                                                                                GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                      G         GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                          2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



          5.    Preparation of geological/geotechnical engineering summary report integrating
                our geological hazards analyses, and slope stability parameters, and providing
                an opinion of site suitability for proposed development, and/or recommendations
                for additional work to comply with Draper City site development regulations.
                Determine potential buildable areas located outside of geological hazards.

1.4       AUTHORIZATION

Authorization was provided by Mr. Adam Breen by returning a signed copy of our Professional
Services Agreement No. 19-1023 dated October 24, 2019 and signed October 30, 2019.

1.5       SCOPING MEETING - WORK PLAN

A scoping meeting to discuss the proposed development was held at the Draper City offices on
November 25, 2019. Attending the meeting at Draper City were the following individuals:

         Keith Collier                Draper City
         Tom Draper                   Draper City
         Jen Jastremski               Draper City
         David Simon, P.G.            Simon Associates LLC (for Draper City)
         Alan Taylor, P.E.            Taylor Geotechnical (for Draper City)
         Patrick Emery, P.E.          G2
         Greg Schlenker, P.G.         GCS Geoscience (for G2)
         Justin Fessler               Breen Homes
         Adam Breen                   Breen Homes

In preparation for the meeting, G2 prepared a Work Plan dated November 12, 2019, outlining
site-specific studies for the subject property, that was submitted to Draper City for review and
approval. The Work Plan outlined the study requirements as they apply to the Draper City
Geological Hazards Ordinance with specific reference to Appendix C of the Chapter, Minimum
Standards for Slope Stability Analysis.                The Work Plan proposed specific
Geological/Geotechnical studies and documentation to include:

          1)    This Work Plan and scope of work development and plan implementation;

          2)    A search and review of previous relevant documentation of site engineering and
                geologic studies and including UGS mapping by Biek, (2005), as shown on
                Figure 3, Geologic Mapping; and reports and studies prepared by others;

          3)    A field reconnaissance study including the geologic logging of a walk-in trench
                approximately 90 feet in length and as much as 10 feet in depth at the location
                shown on Figure 5;


                                                                                          Page 3
Breen Homes
                                                                                GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                        G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                            2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



       4)      Development of a geological slope cross-section along the A-A’ axis shown on
               Figure 5 to be used for geotechnical engineering slope stability analysis;

       5)      Site-specific geological mapping and classification to identify critical geological
               units and exposure to proposed site improvements;

       6)      Slope analysis from LiDAR geoprocessing, as shown on Figure 4, LiDAR
               Analysis, identifying critical areas 30-percent or greater across the site and/or
               surficial features potentially affecting the proposed site improvements;

       7)      A laboratory geotechnical soils testing program of samples recovered from the
               test pits, trenches and borings for typical and critical geological units explored
               and identified in our subsurface evaluation. The laboratory testing program to
               include but not be limited to the moisture, density, gradation, Atterberg limits,
               consolidation, vane shear, and direct shear tests of representative soil samples;
               and

       8)      Preparation of geological/geotechnical engineering summary report integrating
               our geological hazards analyses, and slope stability parametrics with our
               previous geotechnical site evaluations (G2, 2016). The report will present our
               analysis, results, and findings, and will include:

                      A vicinity map showing the location of the property relative to site vicinity
                       and topographic features.

                      A site detail//geologic map, scaled minimally to one-inch equals 200 feet
                       showing the locations of subsurface investigations and site-specific
                       geologic features of the site and surrounding area.

                      Aerial photography showing the site and nearby surficial geologic
                       features.

                      Geological logs of our exploration trench, located as shown on Figure 5.

                      An assessment of potential geologic hazards in the vicinity of the site and
                       the exposure of the site and proposed site improvements to hazards
                       named in the ordinance including but not limited to: landsliding and site-
                       specific slope stability; surface fault rupture; strong earthquake ground
                       motion, and liquefaction hazards; alluvial fan processes including debris-
                       flow; rockfall and avalanche hazards, and flood hazards.

                      Cross-sections of slopes depicting encountered and projected geological
                       conditions.

                                                                                              Page 4
Breen Homes
                                                                                GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                        G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                            2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



                      The analysis of site-specific slope stability for both the static and dynamic
                       conditions expected for the site (Blake and others, 2002).

                      Preparation site development recommendations, including a statement
                       regarding the suitability of the proposed development from a geologic
                       hazard perspective, based upon our findings and professional
                       experience.

The scope of work outlined in our November 12, 2019 Work Plan was approved during the
November 25, 2019 meeting, contingent upon Breen Homes securing the necessary
disturbance permits from Draper City prior to our field exploration date.

1.6    PROFESSIONAL STATEMENTS

Supporting data upon which our recommendations are based are presented in subsequent
sections of this report. Recommendations presented herein are governed by the physical
properties of the geological units and soils encountered in the exploration trench, projected
groundwater conditions, and the layout and design data discussed in Section 2., Proposed
Construction, of this report. If subsurface conditions other than those described in this report
are encountered and/or if design and layout changes are implemented, G2 must be informed so
that our recommendations can be reviewed and amended, if necessary.

Our professional services have been performed, our findings developed, and our
recommendations prepared in accordance with generally accepted engineering and geological
principles and practices in this area at this time.

2.     PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION

A single-family residential structure is proposed for the site. The proposed structure is
anticipated to be two to three levels above grade with a full-depth basement level and of wood-
frame and concrete construction. Projected maximum column and wall loads are on the order
of 40 to 60 kips and 2 to 3 kips per lineal foot, respectively. Site development will require a
moderate amount of earthwork in the form of site grading. We estimate that maximum cuts and
fills to achieve design grades will be on the order of two to eight feet.

3.     INVESTIGATIONS

3.1    PREVIOUS INVESTIGATIONS

A previous Geotechnical Study was conducted for the site by G2 in September 2016. The
previous study was conducted to evaluate the subsurface soil and groundwater conditions
across the site, and provide appropriate foundation, earthwork, pavement, and geoseismic



                                                                                              Page 5
Breen Homes
                                                                               GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                       G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                           2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                               ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



recommendations to be utilized in the design and construction for the proposed residence. This
current report addresses the geologic hazards and slope stability for the site.

3.2    LITERATURE REVIEW AND SITE ANALYSIS

Our review of existing information and mapping for the subject site has included aforementioned
previous reports and documentation and previous Utah Geological Survey (UGS) maps, reports
and data (Biek, 2005; Christenson and Shaw, 2008). The geologic mapping of the site vicinity
by Biek (2005) is presented on Figure 3, Geologic Mapping. In addition to the previewed
reports, maps, and literature, our review has included an analysis of vertical-orthorectified and
stereoscopic aerial photography for the site including a 1958 1:10,000 stereoscopic sequence
(frames AAL-35V-94 and AAL-35V-94), a 1962 1:27,000 stereoscopic sequence (frames
1VAFZ00010061 and 1VAFZ00010062), a 2012 5.0-inch digital color HRO coverage (as shown
on Figure 2, Aerial Coverage, Figure 5, Site Details), and 2014 and 2018 0.6-meter digital color
NAIP coverage of the site.

A GIS analysis and data integration for the site evaluation was conducted using the QGIS® GIS
platform to geoprocess and analyze 2014 0.5-meter LiDAR digital elevation data made available
for the site by the Utah Automated Geographic Reference Center (AGRC), and presented on
Figure 4, LiDAR Analysis. The GIS analysis includes using the QGIS® platform Geospatial Data
Abstraction Library (GDAL) Contour, and the GRASS® (Geographic Resources Analysis
Support System) r.slope and r.shaded.relief modules. The GIS platform was used to integrate
terrain layers, geologic mapping, photogrametric details, available digital vector and raster data,
and field GPS details collected during our field program, and for graphical presentation of our
study findings herein.

3.3    FIELD PROGRAM

In order to define and evaluate the subsurface soil and groundwater conditions for the present
scope of work, an exploration trench was excavated and logged at the site on
December 10, 2019. The trench was 84.0 feet in length and extended to depths of 6.0 to
14.5 feet below the surface. The trench was excavated beneath the proposed structure location
using a track-mounted 30-ton class excavator at the location shown on Figure 5, Site Details.

Our field program was conducted under the supervision of Dr. Greg Schlenker, P.G. of our
engineering geology staff, and Mr. Patrick Emery, P.E. of our geotechnical staff was also
present and collected soil samples from the trench for laboratory testing.

On the behalf of Draper City, Mr. David Simon, P.G. (Simon Associates LLC) and
Mr. Alan Taylor, P.E. (Taylor Geotechnical), visited the site during the field program for field
review purposes, and observed the soil and rock exposed in the trench. During the
December 10, 2019 field review, informal discussions were held between the professionals



                                                                                             Page 6
Breen Homes
                                                                                  GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                          G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                              2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                  ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



(Emery, Schlenker, Simon, and Taylor) regarding the nature and disposition of the soil and rock
exposed in the trench.

To document the observed exposures in the trench, a geologic log of the subsurface conditions
encountered was drawn. Detailed graphical representations of the subsurface conditions
encountered are presented on Figure 6, Log of Trench, and within the trench undisturbed thin-
wall tube and disturbed bulk samples of representative soils encountered were obtained for
subsequent laboratory testing and examination. The representative soil samples were placed in
sealed plastic bags and containers prior to transport to our laboratory.

Following the completion of excavation and logging, the test pits and trench were backfilled with
the excavated soils, but were not compacted in a controlled manner; thus, for any portion of the
proposed building placed over the trench areas, the backfill soils should be removed and
replaced with compacted structural fill.

3.4     LABORATORY TESTING

3.4.1   General

In order to provide data necessary for our engineering analyses, a laboratory testing program
was performed. The program included: Atterberg limits, partial gradation, direct shear, and
residual ring shear tests. The following paragraphs describe the tests and summarize the test
data.

3.4.2   Atterberg Limits Tests

To aid in classifying the site soils, an Atterberg limits test was performed upon three
representative samples of the soils encountered in the exploration trench. Results of the tests
are as follows:

                                 Liquid          Plastic         Plasticity
        Trench       Depth        Limit           Limit            Index              Soil
          No.        (feet)     (percent)       (percent)        (percent)        Classification
      Trench 1 @
       STA 27.5        8.5          65              27               38                CH
      Trench 1 @
       STA 39.0        5.0          60              20               40                CH
      Trench 1 @
       STA 44.5        9.5          57              21               36                CH




                                                                                               Page 7
Breen Homes
                                                                                       GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                             G         GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                                 2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                       ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



3.4.3   Partial Gradation Tests

To further aid in classifying the soils and to provide general index parameters, a partial
gradation test was performed upon three representative samples of the soils encountered in the
exploration trench. The results of the tests are tabulated below:

                                 Depth      Percent Passing                   Soil
               Trench No.        (feet)      No. 200 Sieve                Classification
               Trench 1 @
                STA 27.5           8.5             52.6                        CH
               Trench 1 @
                STA 35.0           5.0             86.7                        CH
               Trench 1 @
                STA 45.0           9.5             87.1                        CH


3.4.4   Direct Shear Test

To provide data necessary for our slope stability analysis, a direct shear test was performed on
a relatively undisturbed sample of the typical soils encountered at the site. The results of the
direct shear test are tabulated below:

                 Trench         Depth          Soil            Friction        Cohesion
                   No.          (feet)     Classification       Angle            (psf)
               Trench 1 @
                STA 35.0          5.0            CH                  16              1116


Direct shear test results are provided in Appendix A.

3.4.5   Residual Ring Shear Test

To provide data necessary for our slope stability analysis, a residual ring shear test was
performed on a sample of the interface between the ash deposits and indurated block and ash
bedrock observed in the exploration trench at the site. This thin layer at the interface is
interpreted to be a deformed zone. The results of the residual ring shear test are tabulated on
the following page.




                                                                                               Page 8
Breen Homes
                                                                                    GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                          G         GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                              2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                    ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



                                                                Peak          Residual
                 Trench          Depth          Soil           Friction       Friction
                   No.           (feet)     Classification      Angle          Angle
               Trench 1 @
                STA 27.5          8.5             CH                 20           19.5


Residual ring shear test results are provided in Appendix A.

4.     SITE CONDITIONS

4.1    SURFACE

The site is located in the Draper City Suncrest Development area. As shown on Figure 1,
Vicinity Map, the site is located at an elevation of approximately 6030 feet (msl). Figure 4,
LiDAR Analysis, indicates the property has surface elevations ranging from 6016 feet to over
6068 feet with slope gradients ranging from less than 5 percent to over 60 percent. The
topography of the site slopes downward toward the east and northeast. Vegetation on the site
is mostly a cover of native grasses and brush on the open areas with scrub oak and maple trees
covering the steeper slope areas on the west side of the property. The site is bordered on the
northwest by undeveloped land, on the south and west by residential properties, and on the east
by Oak Bluff Place (street).

4.2    SITE GEOLOGY

The geology of the site was interpreted through an integrated compilation of data analyses,
including a review of literature and mapping from our previous studies conducted in the area;
geologic mapping by (Biek, 2005) as shown on Figure 3, Geologic Mapping; photogeologic
analyses of 2012 imagery as shown on Figure 2, Site Plan, and Figure 5, Site Details; GIS
analyses of elevation and geoprocessed 2014 LiDAR terrain data as shown on Figure 4, LiDAR
Analysis, and available GIS hazards information provided by the Utah Automated Geographic
Reference Center (AGRC at: http://gis.utah.gov/); field reconnaissance of the general site area,
and the interpretation of the trench at the site as part of our field program. Seismic hazards
information was developed from United States Geologic Survey (USGS) databases (Peterson
and others, 2008).

The site is located on the Traverse Mountain Salient, which is within the Basin and Range
Physiographic Province. This province is characterized by approximately north-south trending
valleys and mountain ranges that have been formed by extensional tectonics and displacement
along normal faults. The province extends from the Wasatch Range on the east to the Sierra
Nevada Range on the west (Hunt, 1967). Conversely, the Traverse Mountain Salient is an east-
to-west structural ridge comprised largely of Tertiary volcanics and Paleozoic sedimentary rocks



                                                                                            Page 9
Breen Homes
                                                                                GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                        G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                            2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



(Biek, 2005), that is flanked by the Wasatch Range on the east and the Jordan Valley on the
west. The salient extends approximately 7.0 miles east to west and 3.5 miles north-to-south.

The near-surface geology of the subject site consists of igneous intrusives and volcaniclastic
sediments formed or deposited prior to the past 10,000 years (Holocene Epoch) (Beik, 2005).

4.3    SUBSURFACE SOIL AND GROUNDWATER

The soil and rock conditions encountered in the trench and shown on Figure 6, Log of Trench, to
the depths penetrated, consisted of surficial soil sequences, fills (Unit 4), colluvial deposits
(Unit 3), underlain by weathered volcanic ash layers (Units 2A and 2B), and indurated block and
ash tuff deposits (Unit 1).

The fill deposits (Unit 4) on the surface of the trench consisted of yellowish-brown Silty Clay
(CL), with Sand, Gravel and Cobbles, mantled with a weak surficial soil horizon. The fills were
observed to be one to three feet in thickness, with the fills partially covering the native soils in
the trench. Underlying the fills and extending the length of the trench, a well-developed Soil A-B
Horizon with vertical structures, one to two and one-half feet in thickness, covered the surface of
the underlying native deposits. The colluvial deposits (Unit 3) consisted of stiff, dark brown Silty
Clay (CL), with sub-angular Gravel and Cobbles. The colluvial deposits (Unit 3) were as much
as three feet in thickness and observed only on the west end of the trench, and partially overlaid
the weathered volcanic ash layers (Units 2A and 2B). The Units 2A and 2B weathered volcanic
ash layer sequence extended to the depth of the trench, was observed to be as much as eight
feet in thickness, and consisted of very stiff reddish-brown, (Unit 2A), and brown (Unit 2B) Silty
Clay (CH) with trace Sand and Gravel and few Cobbles; reddish-brown, (2A), and brown (2B),
fine to medium Sand, fine and coarse Gravel; light reddish-brown.

The Units 2A and 2B weathered volcanic ash layer beds were observed in the trench to dip
downward to the west 14- to 18-degrees, and to unconformably overlap the indurated volcanic
block and ash deposits (Unit 1). The Unit 1 indurated volcanic block and ash deposits were
observed as much as five feet in thickness and were exposed on the west end of the trench.
The Unit 1 indurated volcanic block and ash deposits consisted of very dense to indurated, light
yellowish-brown, Clay to Sand matrix weathered rock, with angular Gravel and Cobbles
(SM/GM), massive structure, with andesite and rhyolite blocks.

Along the Unit 1 and Unit 2A boundary, an approximately four-inch zone of deformed Unit 1
material, coated with a thin FeOX (iron oxide) vein was observed. This boundary was
interpreted during field review as a slope failure boundary, with block failure movement
occurring between Unit 1 and Units 2A and 2B. The 14- to 18-degree dips observed in Units 2A
and 2B are believed to be a result of back-tilting, as a result of this block failure movement.

The materials observed at depth in the trench; including Units 1, 2A, and 2B, are consistent with
the “block and ash-flow tuffs” geological description mapped by Biek (2005) for the Lehi


                                                                                             Page 10
Breen Homes
                                                                              GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                      G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                          2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                              ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



quadrangle and part of the Timpanogos Cave quadrangle as underlying the site. Biek’s (2005)
description is paraphrased as follows:

       Tv: Volcanic rocks of the east Traverse Mountains, undivided (Oligocene-Eocene) -
       Complexly interbedded block and ash-flow tuffs, volcanic mudflow breccia, minor lava
       flows, and minor fluvial volcaniclastic deposits in the east Traverse Mountains that are
       impractical to map separately due to poor exposures and extensive alteration; classified
       as borderline latite, trachyte, dacite, and andesite...block and ash-flow tuffs likely
       comprise the bulk of these deposits...(Beik, 2005).

Groundwater was not encountered in the trench or the 2016 test pits during excavation
operations; however, our experience is that ‘perched’ groundwater conditions may exist during
certain portions of the year. Seasonal and longer-term groundwater fluctuations on the order of
one to two feet are projected, with the highest seasonal levels generally occurring during the
late spring and early summer months. We do not anticipate that groundwater levels will affect
the proposed construction.

5.     ENGINEERING GEOLOGY AND SLOPE STABILITY ANALYSIS

5.1    STRONG GROUND MOTION

The site is located within Intermountain Seismic Belt and is near to the Salt Lake City section of
the Wasatch fault zone. Analyses of ground shaking hazard along the Wasatch Front suggests
that the Wasatch Fault Zone is the largest contributor to the seismic hazard in the Salt Lake City
area. The Wasatch fault zone is considered active and capable of generating earthquakes as
large as magnitude 7.3 (Arabasz and others,1992). Surface fault rupture commonly occurs in
conjunction with events of magnitude 6 or larger. DuRoss and Hylland (2015) have determined
that nine surface faulting earthquake events have occurred on the Salt Lake City Segment of
the Wasatch Fault Zone during the past 18,000 years.

Based on probabilistic estimates for the site (Peterson, and others, 2014), the expected peak
horizontal ground acceleration on rock from a large earthquake with a 10-percent probability of
exceedance in 50 years is as high as 0.21g, and for a 3.5-percent probability of exceedance in
50 years is as high as 0.50g for the site. Ground accelerations greater than these are possible
but will have a lower probability of occurrence

The 10-percent probability of exceedance in 50 years event has a return period of 475 years,
and the 0.21g acceleration for this event corresponds "very strong" perceived shaking with
"moderate" potential damage based on instrument intensity correlations. The 3.5-percent
probability of exceedance in 50 years event has a return period of 1400 years, and the 0.50g
acceleration for this event corresponds "very strong to severe" perceived shaking with
"moderate to heavy" potential damage based on instrument intensity correlations (Wald and
others,1999).


                                                                                           Page 11
Breen Homes
                                                                                GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                        G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                            2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



As per the Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance Section 12.1, ground motion parameters
for pseudo-static seismic stability evaluations shall be derived from the 3.5 percent probability of
exceedance in 50 years peak ground acceleration.

5.2    ACTIVE EARTHQUAKE FAULTS

Based upon our review of available literature, no active faults are known to pass through or
immediately adjacent to the site. The site is located outside of the fault investigation zones
identified by Draper City, on the 9-19-161-1; Appendix A, Geologic Hazards Study Area Maps,
Plate A-1, Surface Fault Rupture Hazard Special Study Area Map (Draper City, 2020). The
nearest Quaternary faulting to the property is the Salt Lake Segment of the Wasatch Fault Zone
(USGS ID Number 2351f), which is mapped as passing approximately 1.17 miles northeast of
the site (McDonald and others, 2018). The Wasatch Fault Zone is considered active because
Holocene (past 10,000 years) movement has been detected in studies conducted on this fault
zone (DuRoss and Hylland, 2015). The Wasatch Fault Zone is considered capable of
generating as large as magnitude 7.3 earthquakes (Arabasz, and others, 1992).

5.3    LIQUEFACTION

In conjunction with the ground shaking potential of large magnitude seismic events as discussed
previously, certain soil units may also possess a potential for liquefaction during a large
magnitude event. Liquefaction is a phenomenon whereby loose, saturated, granular soil units
lose a significant portion of their shear strength due to excess pore water pressure buildup
resulting from dynamic loading, such as that caused by an earthquake. Among other effects,
liquefaction can result in densification of such deposits, causing settlements of overlying layers
after an earthquake as excess pore water pressures are dissipated. Horizontally continuous
liquefied layers may also have a potential to spread laterally where sufficient slope or free-face
conditions exist. The primary factors affecting liquefaction potential of a soil deposit are:
(1) magnitude and duration of seismic ground motions; (2) soil type and consistency; and
(3) occurrence and depth to groundwater.

Liquefaction commonly occurs in saturated non-cohesive soils, such as alluvium, which
conditions are not found on the site. Consequently, the conditions susceptible to liquefaction do
not appear to be present at the site. Furthermore, the site is located outside of the liquefaction
study zones identified by Draper City, on the 9-19-161-1; Appendix A, Geologic Hazards Study
Area Maps, Plate A-2, Liquefaction Special Study Area Map (Draper City, 2020).

5.4    OTHER GEOLOGICAL HAZARDS

Other geological hazards considered for this study include debris flow hazards, stream scour
hazards, rock fall hazards, and shallow groundwater.




                                                                                             Page 12
Breen Homes
                                                                                 GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                         G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                             2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                 ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



No alluvial fan deposits were identified in the vicinity of the site, additionally the site is located
outside of the debris flow study zones identified by Draper City, on the 9-19-161-1; Appendix A,
Geologic Hazards Study Area Maps, Plate A-4, Debris Flow Special Study Area Map (Draper
City, 2020), thus, we conclude debris flow hazards to be unlikely at the site. No alluvial
sediments were identified on the site; therefore, future stream scour hazards are also
considered unlikely at the site.

The site is not located down-slope from steep slope - bedrock outcrop areas where rockfall or
snow avalanche hazards may originate, and no such conditions were observed during our
mapping or reconnaissance of the site. The Draper City rockfall hazard map, on the
9-19-161-1; Appendix A, Geologic Hazards Study Area Maps, Plate A-5, Rockfall Special Study
Area Map, shows the site to be outside of this hazard area (Draper City, 2020),

Groundwater, nor incipient evidence thereof, was not observed in our trench or our 2016 test
pits; therefore, we do not expect shallow groundwater to be an issue at the site. However,
because of relatively shallow bedrock, we recommend that appropriate foundation drain
systems be considered for design.

A review of the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map for the site location (Map 49035C0625G),
indicates that the site is outside of the 100- and 500-year flood hazard areas delineated on the
FEMA maps (FEMA, 2009).

5.5    LANDSLIDING AND SLOPE STABILITY

A query of the LiDAR data indicates that slope gradients at the property site range from
moderate to steep with gradients ranging from less than 5 percent to in excess of 60 percent.
Draper City Code 9-16-040: Development Requirements specify that slope areas in excess of
thirty percent (30%) may not be developed… Our LiDAR analysis shown on Figure 4, LiDAR
Analysis, calculated the site slopes to be 31.4 percent for the 0.48-acre Lot 27 parcel, and
21.4 percent for the ground underlying the proposed structure location.

The surficial geological mapping by Biek (2005) describes the geological units underlying the
site to be of “complexly interbedded” Tertiary volcanic deposits of Eocene to Oligocene age
(roughly 50 to 29 million years before present). The soil and rock encountered in our trench
shown on Figure 6, and described in Section 3.3, was interpreted as a slope failure boundary,
with block failure movement occurring between Unit 1 and Units 2A and 2B. The planiform
geometry of the boundary is shown on Figure 5, as a geologic contact between units subdivided
herein as: Tv-b - Teritary volcanics - indurated block and ash deposits and Tv-a - Teritary
volcanics - weathered ash deposits. Because our review of the historic (pre-development
1958 and 1962, see Figures 8 and 9, respectively) aerial photography and LiDAR analysis
(2014) did not reveal diagnostic arcuate rotational morphology indicative of typical rotation
slumping (Varnes, 1978), and because the bedding of the volcanic weathered ash beds
(2A and 2B) on Figure 6, showed little evidence of deformation, we presume the slope failure


                                                                                               Page 13
Breen Homes
                                                                                GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                        G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                            2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



boundary observed in the trench is the result of block failure movement, with the downslope
movement of the Tv-a - Teritary volcanics - weathered ash deposits, relative to the underlying
Tv-b - Teritary volcanics - indurated block and ash deposits. The strike of this movement is
believed to be elongated northwest to southeast and parallel with the geological contact shown on
Figure 5, also and parallel with the local controlling ridge and valley structure on the west side of
the Oak Bluff Place street. The sense of movement is down to the northeast. This topographic
structure is best visualized on the LiDAR imagery on Figure 4.

Figure 7, Geologic Cross-Section Line A-A’, shows the slope cross-section of the site area
marked as line A-A’ on Figures 5, Site Details. The cross-section traverses a 515-foot slope
area across the site location, beginning on the west on Saddle Leaf Court Street at
approximately 6090 feet and descending eastward across the site to the bottom of an unnamed
drainage east of the site to an elevation of 5976 feet. The Figure 7 cross-section illustrates
slope gradients and projected soil, rock, and groundwater conditions, and the possible failure
boundary to be used in our slope global slope stability calculations for the site.

5.5.1   Slope Stability Analysis

In order to evaluate the global stability of the sloping site, an analysis was performed with the
computer program, SLIDE (Version 6.0), utilizing the modified Bishops method for circular and
non-circular failure surfaces. The simulated annealing method was used for locating non-circular
surfaces. The analysis included both static and pseudo-seismic conditions.

The geometry and configuration for the global stability model was developed from the geologic
cross-section shown on Figure 5. Section A-A’ was determined to be the critical cross-section
for slope stability analysis based on the subsurface investigations, Lidar analysis, and proposed
site developments.

The subsurface profile was developed utilizing stratigraphic information obtained from the
geologic exploration trench as well as several test pits. The locations of the test pits, continuous
trench, and cross-section profile are shown on Figure 5.

As shown on model Run 1 and Run 2, the slope analysis limits were constrained on the cross-
section to below the location where the contact between Tv-a and Tv-b was observed. A dip
angle of this plane was measured at 30 degrees. A search for circular failure surfaces initiating
at the observed contact location and terminating at the unnamed drainage to the northeast of
the site was performed to find the critical slip surface. A minimum depth of 30 feet for potential
failure surfaces was specified in the model to reflect the observed initiation angle and geometry
of the potential shear plane.

The slope limits were also expanded to the entire cross-section to analyze the stability of the
slope above the Tv-a/Tv-b contact, as shown on model Run 3 and Run 4.



                                                                                              Page 14
Breen Homes
                                                                                    GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                          G         GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                                2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                    ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



5.5.2   Soil Strength

Strength parameters were obtained through laboratory testing of disturbed and relatively
undisturbed samples as well as published correlations based on index soil parameters.
Subsurface investigations at the site identified evidence that the interface between weathered
ash deposits (fat clay) and indurated block and ash bedrock has possibly experienced
significant past shear deformation. Therefore, residual strength must be considered in the
analysis.

The Draper Geologic Hazards Ordinance states that residual shear strengths as low as 11 to
12 degrees have been measured in the Tertiary volcanics around Traverse Mountain. However,
if a friction angle of 11 degrees is utilized for the shear plane in this case, the slope would fail
under static conditions. A residual ring shear test was performed on a sample of the material
observed to be the basal shear surface of past deformation. The test resulted in a residual
friction angle of 19.5 degrees. It is difficult to know whether the material tested is the actual
shear plane since the deformed zone is often very thin. Correlations from Stark and Eid 1994,
and Stark and McCone, 2005, indicate a range of residual shear strengths of approximately
10 to 21 degrees. Considering the test results and available data, a middle-range residual
shear strength of 16 degrees was selected for residual strength acting along pre-sheared
surfaces within the slide mass. A shear strength of 19 degrees was selected for the remolded
strength acting along surfaces in a first-time shear scenario where fully residual conditions have
not yet developed.

Peak strengths are assumed for the underlying, un-deformed indurated block and ash bedrock.
Strength parameters were conservatively assumed for indurated block and ash bedrock to
bethat of a high-strength soil.

The following table summarizes the soil strength values utilized:

                                                                Parameter Units
                        Soil Type          Soil Parameter          (Drained)
                                              Cohesion                0 (psf)
                     Weathered Ash
                                            Friction Angle              16
                      [Residual]
                                             Unit Weight             120 (pcf)
                                              Cohesion                0 (psf)
                     Weathered Ash
                                            Friction Angle              19
                      [Remolded]
                                             Unit Weight             120 (pcf)
                                              Cohesion               250 (psf)
                   Bedrock (Indurated
                                            Friction Angle              36
                    Block and Ash)
                                             Unit Weight             125 (pcf)


                                                                                             Page 15
Breen Homes
                                                                                  GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                         G        GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                              2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                  ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



5.5.3   Groundwater Conditions

Groundwater was not encountered in the exploration test pits or continuous trench, to the
maximum explored depths. Groundwater is projected to be at depths of approximately 50 to
100 feet below the east and west portions of the site, respectively.

5.5.4   Analysis Results

In order to model the stability of the slope in its current condition, stability calculations were
performed assuming the failure surface limits are confined above to the observed head scarp
and below to the toe of the slope, located offsite. The results for circular and non-circular
analyses under current conditions are tabulated below:

Below Tv-a/Tv-b contact Circular Method:

                                                                      Lowest      Recommended
                                                     Seismic         Factor of    Minimum Factor
    Model Run                 Condition             Coefficient       Safety         of Safety

        Run 1                    Static                  --            1.32            1.5

        Run 2                Pseudo-Static             0.25*           0.60            1.0

  * 1/2 of the peak ground acceleration having a 3.5% probability of exceedance in 50 years


Below Tv-a/Tv-b contact Translational Method:

                                                                      Lowest      Recommended
                                                     Seismic         Factor of    Minimum Factor
    Model Run                 Condition             Coefficient       Safety         of Safety

        Run 5                    Static                  --            1.37            1.5

        Run 6                Pseudo-Static             0.25*           0.67            1.0

  * 1/2 of the peak ground acceleration having a 3.5% probability of exceedance in 50 years




                                                                                             Page 16
Breen Homes
                                                                                   GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                         G         GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                              2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                   ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



In order to identify critical slip surfaces which may affect the overall site, stability calculations
were performed on the slope as whole, with no upper and lower slope limits. Results of the
critical surface calculations are tabulated below:

Critical Surfaces

                                                                      Seismic      Critical Surface
         Model Run                          Condition                Coefficient   Factor of Safety

            Run 3                              Static                    --              1.5

            Run 4                         Pseudo-Static                0.25*             1.0

 * 1/2 of the peak ground acceleration having a 3.5% probability of exceedance in 50 years


The critical surface shown on Run 3, under static conditions, corresponds to the head scarp of
the block failure feature. The critical surface derived from model Run 4, under seismic
conditions, boundaries shown on Figure 5, includes a shallow slice of Tv-b. Based on our
observations of Tv-b, the indurated block and ash unit is undeformed and projected to exhibit
high strength. It is likely that higher strengths are present in reality than the conservative
parameters utilized in the model.

The results of the slope stability analysis indicate that the slope below the Tv-a/Tv-b contact,
with measured and projected potential shear plane geometry, is marginally stable under static
conditions. However, the factor of safety is less than the Draper City required minimum of 1.5.
Additionally, the slope is at risk of failure during the design seismic event.

Based on the above slope stability calculations, it is recommended that the proposed structure
be established entirely upon the Tv-b unit to mitigate slope stability hazards. Additional slope
stability models constructed to reflect proposed site grading, Runs 7 and 8, demonstrate that no
critical surfaces pass under the foundation of the structure established upon Tv-b. Results of
the stability calculations reflecting site grading are presented in the table on the following page.




                                                                                               Page 17
Breen Homes
                                                                                   GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                          G        GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                               2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                   ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



                                                                        First
                                                                       Surface
                                                                      Affecting    Recommended
                                                     Seismic          Proposed     Minimum Factor
     Model Run                Condition             Coefficient      Foundation       of Safety

        Run 7                    Static                  --            1.51+            1.5

        Run 8                Pseudo-Static             0.25*            1.14            1.0

    * 1/2 of the peak ground acceleration having a 3.5% probability of exceedance in 50 years


Slope stability analysis results are presented in graphical form and have been enclosed in
Appendix B, Slope Stability Results.

5.5.5    Deformation Analysis

In order to estimate the potential movement of the unstable slide mass during a seismic event, a
deformation analysis was performed using the method proposed in Bray and Travasarou
(2007)1. The slide mass for this analysis is assumed to be the slip surface calculated from
Model Run 2 with constrained slope limits. The following parameters were utilized in the
deformation analysis:

         Yield Coefficient (ky) = 0.065 (back-calculated from pseudo-static slope stability model)

         Average Height of the Slide Mass (H) = 30 feet

         Average Shear Wave Velocity of the Slide Mass (Vs) = 2,000 fps (estimated)

         Initial Fundamental Period (Ts) = 4H/Vs = 0.06 seconds

         Moment Magnitude (Mw) = 7.0

         Spectral Acceleration at Degraded Period (Sa(1.5Ts)) = 0.78g

The calculated seismic displacement is 47cm with the above model inputs. To analyze the
sensitivity of the deformation analysis to the residual strength parameter, the analysis was run
utilizing a higher-end strength value of 19.5 degrees. With the higher strength parameter, the
yield coefficient ky = 0.135 and the calculated displacement is on the order of 17cm. This

1
         “Simplified Procedure for Estimating Earthquake-Induced Deviatoric Slope Displacements”
         Jonathan D. Bray and Thaleia Travasarou, Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental
         Engineering, ASCE, April 2007.

                                                                                              Page 18
Breen Homes
                                                                                GORDON
Job No. 224-023-19
                                                                        G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                            2
Geologic Hazard Evaluation – Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                                                                                ENGINEERING, INC.
August 26, 2020



deformation is likely to be concentrated along the pre-existing shear plane. Model Runs 9
and 10 show derivation of the yield coefficients.

The results of the deformation analysis indicate that the slope will not meet the Draper City
required displacement threshold of 5cm. The deformation analysis calculation spreadsheet has
been included in Appendix C and supporting information in Appendix D.

5.5.6   Surficial Stability Analysis

Subsurface conditions at the site consist of indurated block and ash bedrock and weathered ash
deposits of which classify as fat clay soil. Due to the very low permeability of these materials, it
is our opinion that conditions do not exist that would allow for the development of an infinite
slope with groundwater seepage parallel to the slope.

6.      CONCLUSIONS

Based on the findings of this study, the slopes underlying the proposed structure location are
interpreted to have been subjected to past deformation as a result of block failure movement.
Detailed slope stability analyses indicate that the structures located below the Tv-a/Tv-b contact
will not meet the Draper Geologic Hazard Ordinance required minimum factor of safety against
slope failure.

The most preferable solution, from a geotechnical/geologic engineering standpoint, is hazard
avoidance. If other project constraints will allow, the proposed structure may be located off of
the unstable slide mass. The indurated block and ash bedrock on the hillside above the
Tv-a/Tv-b contact is stable and is suitable from a slope stability hazard standpoint. The
“Recommended Buildable Area” on Figure 5, shows the area on the property where the
Tv-a/Tv-b contact is within 15 feet from the surface of the site, and a conventional foundation
system is feasible.

If the structure cannot be located away from the unstable slide mass, the structure may
potentially be supported on a deep foundation system, such as soldier piles or drilled shafts,
installed through the unstable soil mass and into competent underlying materials and designed
to resist the potential shear forces. Soldier piles/drilled shafts can be used to stabilize the slope
and provide support for the structure (Blake and others, 2002); however, the depth to competent
materials in the lower portions of the lot could be 120 feet or more. Design of a deep foundation
system may require additional studies.

If the proposed dwelling is structurally placed upon the Tv-b - Teritary volcanics - indurated
block and ash deposits and penetrates the overlying Tv-a - Teritary volcanics - weathered ash
deposits, the site will be suitable for the proposed development from a geologic hazard
perspective.



                                                                                              Page 19
_ _s.re•e•n-H.o_
               m e•s-----------------~ ■ GORDON
                                                                                G
                                                                                2
                                                                                        GEOTECHNICAL
  Job No. 22 4-0 23 - 19                                                   ■            ENGINEERING, INC.
  Geologic Hazard Evaluation - Geotechnical Slope Stabil ity Analysis
  Au gust 26, 2020



  7.      CLOSURE

  If you have any questions or would like to discuss these items further, please feel free to contact
  us at (801) 327-9600.


  Respectfully submitted,

  Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, I                                    And,




  Gregory C. Schl~w                ~
  State of Utah No.   522t ~~·
  Senior Geologist




                                                                                                         .::-
                                                                           IC       mer , . .
                                                                                    .
                                                                        State of Utah No. 794171
                                                                        Senior Geotechnical Engineer
  GCS/PRE/J KC:sn


  Encl.   Figure 1,       Vicinity Map
          Figure 2,       Aerial Coverage
          Figure 3,       Geologic Mapping
          Figure 4,       LiDAR Analysis
          Figure 5,       Site Geologic Map
          Figure 6,       Log of Trench
          Figure 7,       Slope A-A ' Geologic Cross-Section
          Figure 8,       1958 Aerial Photography
          Figure 9,       1962 Aerial Photography
          Appendix A,     Laboratory Test Results
          Appendix B,     Slope Stability Analysis Results
          Appendix C,     Deformation Analysis
          Appendix D,     Supporting Information

  Addressee (5 + email)


                                                                                               Page 20
                                                                              GORDON
                                                                     G        GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                          2

                                                                              ENGINEERING, INC.



                                        REFERENCES

Arabasz, W.J., Pechmann, J.C., and Brown, E.D. (1992), Observational seismology and the
evaluation of earthquake hazards and risk in the Wasatch Front area, Utah, in Gori, P.L. and
Hays, W.W., (eds.) Assessment of regional earthquake hazards and risk along the Wasatch
Front, Utah: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1500-D, 36 p.

Black, B.D., DuRoss, C.B., Hylland, M.D., McDonald, G.N., and Hecker, S., compilers, 2004,
Fault number 2351f, Wasatch fault zone, Salt Lake City section, in Quaternary fault and fold
database       of    the    United      States:     U.S.    Geological  Survey      website,
http://earthquakes.usgs.gov/regional/qfaults, accessed 06/26/2014.

Blake, T.F., Hollingsworth, R.A., and Stewart, J.P., editors, 2002, Recommended procedures for
implementation of DMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for analyzing and mitigating
landslide hazards in California: Los Angeles, Southern California Earthquake Center, 110 p.,
1 appendix:

Biek, R.F. (2005) Geologic map of the Lehi quadrangle and part of the Timpanogos Cave
quadrangle, Salt Lake and Utah Counties, Utah: 2 pl. 2005 Utah Geological Survey,
scale 1:24,000

Christenson, G.E., and Shaw, L.M., 2008, Surface Fault Rupture Special Study Areas, Wasatch
Front and Nearby Areas, Utah, Geographic Information System database showing geologic-
hazard special study areas, Wasatch Front, Utah: Utah Geological Survey Circular 106, 7 p.
scale 1:200,000

Draper City, 2020, City Code of Draper City, Utah: Draper City website,
https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/draperut/latest/draper_ut/0-0-0-1

FEMA, 2009, City of Draper, Flood Insurance Rate Map, Panel 490244, Map 49035C0625G,
scale 1:6,000.

DuRoss, C.B., and Hylland, M.D., 2015, Synchronous Ruptures Along a Major Graben Forming
Fault System: Wasatch and West Valley Fault Zones, Utah; Bulletin of the Seismological
Society of America, Vol. 105, No. 1, pp. 14-37

G2, 2020, Updated Geotechnical Study, Proposed Residential Structure, Lot 27, Oak Vista No. 1
at Suncrest, 14812 South Oak Bluff Place Draper, Utah: Unpublished Consultants report, 21p.,
plates.

G2, 2016, Geotechnical Study, Proposed Residential Structure, 14812 South Oak Bluff Place,
Draper, Utah: Unpublished Consultants report, 21p., plates.




                                                                                       Page 21
                                                                             GORDON
                                                                     G       GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                         2

                                                                             ENGINEERING, INC.



Gilson, 2020, Civil Plans, Vrontikis Residential Site; 14812 S. Oak Bluff Place, Draper, Utah:
Unpublished engineering plans, plates.

Hunt, C.B. (1967). Physiography of the United States. San Francisco, W.H. Freeman, 480 p.

McDonald, G.N., Hiscock, A.I., Kleber, E.J., and Bowman, S.D., 2018, Detailed mapping of the
Wasatch fault zone, Utah and Idaho – Using new high-resolution lidar data to reduce
earthquake risk: Final technical report to the U.S. Geological Survey, National Earthquake
Hazards Reduction Program, award no. G17AP00001, 39 plates, scale 1:24,000.

Petersen, M.D., Moschetti, M.P., Powers, P.M., Mueller, C.S., Haller, K.M., Frankel, A.D., Zeng,
Yuehua, Rezaeian, Sanaz, Harmsen, S.C., Boyd, O.S., Field, Ned, Chen, Rui, Rukstales, K.S.,
Luco, Nico, Wheeler, R.L., Williams, R.A., and Olsen, A.H., 2014, Documentation for the 2014
update of the United States national seismic hazard maps: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File
Report 2014–1091, 243 p., https://dx.doi.org/10.3133/ofr20141091.

Varnes, D.J., 1978, Slope movement types and processes, in Schuster, R.L., and Krizek, R.J.,
eds., Landslides—Analysis and control: National Research Council, Washington, D.C.,
Transportation Research Board, Special Report 176, p. 11–33

Wald, D.J., Quitoriano, V., Heaton, T.H., and Kanamori, H., 1999, Relationship between Peak
Ground Acceleration, Peak Ground Velocity, and Modified Mercalli Intensity in California:
Earthquake Spectra, v. 15, no. 3, p. 557-564




                                                                                         Page 22
Base:
7.5 Minute USGS Toporgraphic Map DRG                                   FIGURE 1
Titled: Lehi, Utah 1998; and Draper, Utah   0    2000      4000 ft
1998; from Utah AGRC;                                                VICINITY MAP
http://gis.utah.gov/

                                                1:24,000
Base:
2012 0.5ft HRO Color Orthoimagery,
from Utah AGRC; http://gis.utah.gov/
                                                                  FIGURE 2
                                       0    200      400 ft
                                                              AERIAL COVERAGE
                                           1:2,400
                                                                              Explanation
                                                                              (Geology after Beik, 2005)


                                                                                                Qf Artificial fill (Historical) − Engineered fill used in the construction of Interstate
                                                                                                15 and other road and railroad beds ;larger areas of fill used to create new level
                                                                                                building areas are also mapped based on aerial photographs taken in May 2002;
                                                                                                although only larger fill deposits are shown, fill of variable composition may be
                                                                                                present in any developed area; variable thickness up to about 90 feet (30 m) ...

                                                                                                Qfd Disturbed land (Historical) – Land disturbed by sand and gravel operations;
                                                                                                only the larger operations are mapped and their outlines are based on aerial
                                                                                                photographs taken in May 2002; land within these areas contains a complex,
                                                                                                rapidly changing mix of cuts and fills, as well as excellent exposures of Lake
                                                                                                Bonneville sediments. Disturbed land at the top of the east Traverse Mountains is
                                                                                                also mapped based on aerial photographs taken in May 2002; this area contains
                                                                                                a complex mix of very large cuts and areas of fill in deeply weathered volcanic
                                                                                                rocks of the east Traverse Mountains (Tv) ...

                                                                                                Qmsy, Qmso - Landslide deposits (Historical to Pleistocene) − Very poorly
                                                                                                sorted, clay- to boulder-size, locally derived material deposited by rotational and
                                                                                                translational movement; characterized by hummocky topography, numerous
                                                                                                internal scarps, and chaotic bedding attitudes; basal slip surfaces... younger
                                                                                                landslides (Qmsy) may have historical movement, but typically are characterized
                                                                                                by slightly to moderately subdued landslide features indicative of middle or late
                                                                                                Holocene to Late Pleistocene age; older landslides (Qmso) are deeply incised
                                                                                                and head scarps and hummocky topography have been extensively modified by
                                                                                                erosion and so most are likely Late Pleistocene in age...

                                                                                                Qac - Alluvial and colluvial deposits (Holocene to Upper Pleistocene) − Poorly
                                                                                                to moderately sorted, generally poorly stratified, clay- to boulder-size, locally
                                                                                                derived sediment deposited in swales, small drainages, and the upper reaches of
                                                                                                larger ephemeral streams by fluvial, slope-wash, and creep processes...

                                                                                                Tv - Volcanic rocks of the east Traverse Mountains, undivided (Oligocene-
                                                                                                Eocene) - Complexly interbedded block and ash-flow tuffs, volcanic mudflow
                                                                                                breccia, minor lava flows, and minor fluvial volcaniclastic deposits...block and
                                                                                                ash-flow tuffs likely comprise the bulk of these deposits...

                                                                                                     Normal fault
                                                                                                                fault, dashed where approximately located, dotted where
                                                                                                     concealed and approximately located...

                                                                                                      Landslide
                                                                                                      Landslide scarp, hachures on down-dropped side
                                                                                                     Spring
Base:
Biek, R.F., 2005, Geologic map of the Lehi                                                                                                   FIGURE 3
quadrangle and part of the Timpanogos Cave             0    400      800 ft
quadrangle, Salt Lake and Utah Counties, Utah: 2 pl.
                                                                                                                                         GEOLOGIC MAPPING
2005 Utah Geological Survey, scale 1:24,000
                                                           1:4,800
Greater Than 30 Percent Slopes




                             FIGURE 4
                          LiDAR ANALYSIS
Lot #27 Oak Vista at Suncrest
Job No. 224-023-19                                                                                              South Wall of Trench                                                                            West
                                                      STA East (ft)                                               (Bearing 59º NE)                                                           STA East
                                                          50                          40                      30                           20                            10                    00
                                                           +                          +                       +                            +                             +                      +
                                                 +0
                                                                                                                                                              Thin FeOx Vein
                                                                                                              Soil A-B Horizon
                                                                                                        With Vertical Structures

                                                 -5
                                                                  Weak Soil Horizon                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                               Line
                                Vertical Scale




                                                 -10
                                                             4                                                                                                                 EXPLANATION
                                                                                                                                                                                  1    Unit 1, Clay to Sand matrix SM/GM with angular Gravel and
                                                                                                                                                                                       Cobbles (matrix supported), light yellowish brown, dry, very
                                                                                           B Tw                                                                                        dense to indurated; with massive structure (Volcanic block and
                                                 -15                                                                                                                                   ash) ...with:
                                                                                                   2A                  B Tw
                                                                                                                                                                                              Andestie block
                                                                                                                      Deformed Zone
                                                             2B
                                                                                                                      ~4.0-inch zone of laminate                                              Rhyolite block
                                                                          B Tw
                                                                                                                      structured Unit 1 material, with
                                                 -20
                                                                            STA 46'                                   upper coated with a thin FeOX
                                                                                                                                                                                  2A   Unit 2A- 2B, Silty Clay CH with trace Sand and Gravel and
                                                                            Strike: 326º                              (iron oxide) vein                                                few Cobbles; reddish brown colored - 2A, and brown colored
                                                                            Dip: 14º                                                                                                   2B (dashed line on log represents diffuse boundary between 2A
                                                                                           South Wall of Trench                                                                   2B   and 2B); fine to medium Sand, fine and coarse Gravel; light
     East
                                                                                             (Bearing 59º NE)                                                                          reddish brown; slightly moist; very stiff; with massive beds
                          STA East (ft)                                                                                                                STA East                        (Volcanic weathered ash beds)
                              90                                       80                         70                       60                            50
                               +                                       +                          +                        +                              +                            Unit 3, Silty Clay CL, with Gravel and Cobbles; dark brown; dry;
                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                             Weak Soil Horizon                                                                                         stiff; sub-angualr particles (Colluvial deposits)
                        -10
                                                            Soil A-B Horizon                                                                                                           Unit 4, Silty Clay CL, with Sand, Gravel and Cobbles; yellowish
                                                                                                                              4                                                   4
                                                      With Vertical Structures                                                                                                         brown; dry; stiff; (Fill deposits)
       Vertical Scale




                                                                                                                                                                  Line            Tw   Thin Wall Soil Sample Location
                        -15                                                                                                                            2A
                                                                                                                                                                                  B    Bulk Soil Sample Location
                                                                                              3

                                                                                                                                   2B

                        -20
                                                                                                              2A                                                                                                                 FIGURE 6
                                                                        Dark brown Unit 2B bed                                          STA 58'                                                                               LOG OF TRENCH
                                                                                                                                        Strike: 355º
                        --25                                                                                                            Dip: 18º
Analysis By: GCS, Checked By PE:5/5/20
                                  GORDON
                          G
                              2
                                  GEOTECHNICAL
                                  ENGINEERING, INC.




    APPENDIX A


Laboratory Test Results
Liquid Limit, Plastic Limit, and Plasticity Index of Soils
(ASTM D4318)                                                                                                                                    © IGES 2004, 2020

  Project: Gordon Geotech                                                                                 Boring No.: T-1
      No: M02106-014 (224-023-19)                                                                            Sample:
 Location: Lot 27 Oak Vista                                                                                   Depth: 27.5'
    Date: 1/14/2020                                                                                       Description: Brown fat clay
      By: BRR
 Grooving tool type: Plastic                                             Preparation method: Wet
 Liquid limit device: Mechanical                                     Liquid limit test method: Multipoint
    Rolling method: Hand                                                Screened over No.40: Yes
                                                                   Larger particles removed: Wet sieved
                                                           Approximate maximum grain size: No.10
                                                        Estimated percent retained on No.40: Not requested
Plastic Limit                                                As-received water content (%): Not requested
            Determination No                             1         2
           Wet Soil + Tare (g)                        13.04     13.89
           Dry Soil + Tare (g)                        11.75     12.45
               Water Loss (g)                          1.29      1.44
                      Tare (g)                         7.07      7.15
                 Dry Soil (g)                          4.68      5.30
         Water Content, w (%)                         27.56     27.17
Liquid Limit
            Determination No                             1                              2              3
          Number of Drops, N                            32                             23             17
           Wet Soil + Tare (g)                        12.94                          15.78          13.50
           Dry Soil + Tare (g)                        10.65                          12.67          11.00
               Water Loss (g)                          2.29                           3.11           2.50
                      Tare (g)                         7.10                           7.95           7.41
                 Dry Soil (g)                          3.55                           4.72           3.59
         Water Content, w (%)                         64.51                          65.89          69.64
                                 One-Point LL (%)                                        65


                      Liquid Limit, LL (%)            66
                      Plastic Limit, PL (%)           27
                    Plasticity Index, PI (%)          39
                    70                                                          60
                                        Flow Curve                                            Plasticity Chart
                    69                                                                                                               U-Line
                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                CH              A-Line
                    68
                                                                                40
Water content (%)




                                                           Plastic Index (PI)




                    67
                                                                                30
                    66                 LL = 66
                                                                                                                                         MH
                                                                                20
                    65                                                                                         CL

                    64                                                          10
                                                                                               CL-ML                ML
                    63                                                          0
                         10                          100                             0        10    20    30     40    50    60    70     80     90   100
                              Number of drops, N                                                                 Liquid Limit (LL)
Entered by:___________
Reviewed:___________                                                                     Z:\PROJECTS\M02106_Gordon_Geotechnical\014_Lot_27_Oak_Vista\[ALv2.xlsm]1
Direct Shear Test for Soils Under Drained Conditions
(ASTM D3080)                                                                                                                                                                       © IGES 2009, 2020

 Project: Gordon Geotechnical                                                                                                        Boring No.: T-1
     No: M02106-014 (224-023-19)                                                                                                        Sample:
Location: Lot 27 Oak Vista                                                                                                               Depth: 35'
   Date: 1/10/2020                                                                                                         Sample Description: Brown clay with sand
      By: EH                                                                               Sample type: Undisturbed-trimmed from thin-wall
                               Test type: Inundated
         Lateral displacement (in.):                  0.3
                 Shear rate (in./min):          0.0009
                 Specific gravity, Gs:              2.70 Assumed
                                                               Sample 1                Sample 2
                       Nominal normal stress (psf)               4000                     1000
                               Peak shear stress (psf)           2256                     1401
                Lateral displacement at peak (in)                0.087                   0.022
                                Load Duration (min)              1024                     1046
                                                          Initial Pre-shear       Initial    Pre-shear
                                   Sample height (in) 0.996            0.980      0.996         0.993
                                Sample diameter (in) 2.416             2.416      2.420         2.420
                              Wt. rings + wet soil (g) 184.57         189.16     186.47        189.64
                                         Wt. rings (g) 45.31           45.31      41.91         41.91
                                   Wet soil + tare (g) 223.45                    223.45
                                   Dry soil + tare (g) 204.21                    204.21
                                               Tare (g) 126.97                   126.97
                                   Water content (%)       24.9         29.0       24.9          27.6
                                Dry unit weight (pcf)      93.0         94.5       96.2          96.5
                     Void ratio, e, for assumed Gs         0.81         0.78       0.75          0.75
                                      Saturation (%)*      82.8        100.0       89.5         100.0
                                 ' (deg)        16                  Average of 2 samples Initial       Pre-shear
                                 c' (psf)      1116                      Water content (%)       24.9     28.3
*Pre-shear saturation set to 100% for phase calculations              Dry unit weight (pcf)      94.6     95.5
                               2500
 Nominal shear stress (psf)




                                                                                                                        4000
                               2000

                               1500
                                                                                                            4000 psf    1000 psf
                                                                           Regression Total stress array         Line fit
                                                         2
                               1000                       R =     1.00       Table         m 3000 b             n (psf) f (psf)
                                                                                           Nominal shear stress (psf)




                                             Intercept (b) = 1116.00           m         0.29       1116.00          0.00 1116.00
                                500
                                                 Slope (m) =      0.29       se(n)       0.00         0.00      4400.00 2370.00
                                                     (deg) =    15.91         R2        1.00         0.00
                                   0
                                    0.00    0.05    c (psf)
                                                      0.10  =   1116.00
                                                              0.15     0.20     F
                                                                                0.25   #NUM!
                                                                                        0.30    2000  0.00
                               0.040                                        ss (reg) ########         0.00
                               0.035
 Normal displacement (in)




                                                       Normal stress (psf)   4000        1000
                               0.030
                               0.025
                                                   Peak shear stress (psf)   2256        1401
                               0.020                               Ms (g) 111.4888 111.4888 115.7319 115.7319
                                                                                                1000
                               0.015                           Vt (cm^3) 74.82          73.66        75.07      74.86
                               0.010                           Vs (cm^3) 41.29          41.29        42.86      42.86
                               0.005                          Vw (cm^3) 27.77           32.36        28.83      32.00
                               0.000                          Vv (cm^3) 33.53           32.36        32.21      32.00
                              -0.005                                     e    0.81       0.78      0 0.75        0.75
                              -0.010                                                                  0          1000            2000      3000                                                     4000
                                     0.00   0.05      0.10
                                                               Va
                                                              0.15
                                                                   (cm^3)
                                                                       0.20
                                                                              5.76
                                                                                0.25
                                                                                         0.00
                                                                                        0.30
                                                                                                      3.38       0.00
                                                                        S
                                                 Lateral displacement (in)    0.83       1.00         0.90       1.00
                                                                                                                   Nominal normal stress (psf)
                                                                                                   4000 psf 1000 psf
Comments:
Sample tube contained only enough material for two test specimens. Test specimens swelled at 125, 250, 500, and 1000 psf
load steps.

Entered by:___________
Reviewed:___________                                                                                                           Z:\PROJECTS\M02106_Gordon_Geotechnical\014_Lot_27_Oak_Vista\[DS_GCv4.xlsm]1
Direct Shear Test for Soils Under Drained Conditions
(ASTM D3080)                                                                                       © IGES 2009, 2020

 Project: Gordon Geotechnical                                                    Boring No.: T-1
     No: M02106-014 (224-023-19)                                                    Sample:
Location: Lot 27 Oak Vista                                                           Depth: 35'
         Nominal normal stress = 4000 psf       Nominal normal stress = 1000 psf
            Lateral    Nominal        Normal       Lateral    Nominal        Normal
         Displacement Shear Stress Displacement Displacement Shear Stress Displacement
             (in.)        (psf)         (in.)       (in.)        (psf)          (in.)
            0.002          565         0.017       0.002          144          0.003
            0.005          932         0.017       0.005          227          0.003
            0.007        1187          0.018       0.007          612          0.003
            0.010        1353          0.018       0.010          935          0.002
            0.012        1513          0.019       0.012        1116           0.002
            0.017        1724          0.020       0.017        1321           0.001
            0.022        1879          0.021       0.022        1401           0.001
            0.027        1975          0.022       0.027        1369           0.000
            0.032        2031          0.023       0.032        1237          -0.001
            0.037        2088          0.023       0.037        1123          -0.001
            0.042        2127          0.023       0.042        1019          -0.001
            0.047        2163          0.024       0.047          943         -0.002
            0.052        2192          0.024       0.052          899         -0.002
            0.057        2212          0.025       0.057          864         -0.003
            0.062        2228          0.025       0.062          835         -0.003
            0.067        2235          0.025       0.067          815         -0.003
            0.072        2246          0.026       0.072          798         -0.004
            0.077        2253          0.026       0.077          783         -0.004
            0.082        2253          0.026       0.082          773         -0.004
            0.087        2256          0.026       0.087          762         -0.004
            0.092        2256          0.027       0.092          754         -0.004
            0.097        2253          0.027       0.097          749         -0.005
            0.102        2251          0.027       0.102          749         -0.005
            0.107        2251          0.027       0.107          746         -0.005
            0.112        2248          0.027       0.112          744         -0.005
            0.117        2243          0.028       0.117          743         -0.005
            0.122        2238          0.028       0.122          741         -0.005
            0.127        2233          0.028       0.127          740         -0.005
            0.132        2228          0.029       0.132          738         -0.005
            0.137        2220          0.029       0.137          737         -0.005
            0.142        2217          0.029       0.142          735         -0.005
            0.147        2210          0.029       0.147          734         -0.005
            0.152        2204          0.029       0.152          734         -0.005
            0.157        2197          0.029       0.157          733         -0.006
            0.162        2192          0.030       0.162          732         -0.006
            0.167        2186          0.030       0.167          730         -0.006
            0.172        2181          0.030       0.172          732         -0.006
            0.177        2179          0.030       0.177          731         -0.006
            0.182        2171          0.030       0.182          730         -0.006
            0.187        2168          0.030       0.187          730         -0.006
            0.192        2161          0.031       0.192          728         -0.006
            0.197        2153          0.031       0.197          728         -0.006
            0.202        2148          0.031       0.202          724         -0.006
            0.207        2142          0.031       0.207          721         -0.006
            0.212        2137          0.032       0.212          720         -0.006
            0.217        2135          0.032       0.217          715         -0.006
            0.222        2130          0.032       0.222          712         -0.006
            0.227        2127          0.032       0.227          710         -0.006
            0.232        2117          0.032       0.232          709         -0.006
            0.237        2114          0.033       0.237          708         -0.006
            0.242        2106          0.033       0.242          707         -0.006
            0.247        2104          0.033       0.247          707         -0.006
            0.252        2099          0.033       0.252          706         -0.006
            0.257        2093          0.033       0.257          706         -0.006
            0.262        2091          0.034       0.262          704         -0.006
            0.267        2083          0.034       0.267          702         -0.006
            0.272        2078          0.034       0.272          700         -0.006
            0.277        2070          0.034       0.277          700         -0.006
            0.282        2062          0.035       0.282          700         -0.006
            0.287        2055          0.035       0.287          699         -0.006
            0.292        2044          0.035       0.292          698         -0.006
            0.297        2042          0.035       0.297          701         -0.006
            0.300        2039          0.035       0.299          701         -0.006
Direct Shear Test for Soils Under Drained Conditions
(ASTM D3080)                                                                                             © IGES 2009, 2020

 Project: Gordon Geotechnical                                              Boring No.: T-1
     No: M02106-014 (224-023-19)                                              Sample:
Location: Lot 27 Oak Vista                                                     Depth: 35'

                               0.004

                                                     Gordon Geotechnical
                               0.006
                                                     M02106-014 (224-023-19)
                                                     T-1 @ 35'
                               0.008                 4000 psf
         Displacement (in.)




                               0.010


                               0.012


                               0.014


                               0.016
                                       0     5        10        15         20       25       30              35

                                                                time (min1/2)



                               0.008

                                                        Gordon Geotechnical
                               0.009
                                                        M02106-014 (224-023-19)
                                                        T-1 @ 35'
                               0.010                    4000 psf
          Displacement (in.)




                               0.011

                               0.012

                               0.013

                               0.014

                               0.015
                                       0.1       1                10              100             1000

                                                                time (min)
  Torsional Ring Shear Test to Determine Drained Residual Shear Strength of
  Cohesive Soils (ASTM 6467 )                                                                                                      © IGES 2007, 2020

  Project: Gordon Geotech                                    Boring No.: T-1
      No: M02106-014 (224-023-19)                                Sample:
 Location: Lot 27 Oak Vista                                       Depth: 27.5'
      Date: 1/31/2020                                                                Sample Description: Brown clay
       By: JDF                                                                 Engineering Classification: Not requested

      Sample preparation: Screened over No.40 / remolded near liquid limit             LL (%):   66                CF a (%):                   N/A
                Test type: Residual with multi-staged sample                           PL (%):   27                Gs assum.:                   2.8
    Ring friction remarks: Modified upper platen                                            % Finer No. 200 (tested sample):                   64.1
       Ring shear device: Bromhead type, WF 25850 #1                                                LL, PL = liquid and plastic limits, respectively
                                                                                                    a
      Sample presheared: Yes                                                                        CF = %<0.002 mm and passing No. 10
               Failure surface location: Near top
            inner/outter/avg. dia. (mm)      70         100          85                                  stress     stress    Horz. def     Vert. def
           inner/outter/avg. radii (mm)      35         50          42.5                   Units:        (psf)       (psf)        (deg.)        (in)
         Thickness (mm)/area (cm^2):         5          40.1                          Conversion: 20885.434         2048.2           1       3.94E-05


                                  Sample 1                       Sample 2             Sample 3
                                   Initial             Final      Initial  Final       Initial          Final
         Sample thickness (mm) 4.97                    3.00         4.99   4.98
     Wt. container + wet soil (g) 626.67                          643.40               643.40
               Wt. container (g) 592.75                           603.74               603.74
              Wet soil + tare (g) 61.22                            58.24                58.24           47.47
              Dry soil + tare (g) 46.65                            Multiphased
                                                                   52.07                52.07           40.47
                        Tare (g) 23.69                             30.28                30.28           23.43
             Water content (%) 63.5                   -316.0        28.3   27.0         28.3            41.1
           Dry density (g/cm^3) 1.04                    1.72        1.55   1.55       #######
                 Saturation (%) 100.0                  -14.2         1.0    0.9       #######


                                                     Sample 1 Sample 2 Sample 3
                     Normal load on lever arm (kg)       1            3        7
              Conversion factor (kg/cm^2) to (psf): 2048.1614 2048.1614 2048.1614
               Residual deformation (deg.) 31.677                 26.745     11.949
                        Normal stress (psf) 1002                   2024       4070
                 Residual shear stress (psf) 263                    669       1490
                     Peak shear stress (psf) 305                   692        1523
        Secant residual friction angle (deg) 14.7                  18.3       20.1
           Secant peak friction angle (deg) 16.9                   18.9       20.5
                      Shear rate (deg/min) 0.0274                 0.0274     0.0274
                  Peak friction angle (deg) 20.0
              Residual friction angle (deg) 19.5




Entered by:___________
Reviewed:___________                          Z:\PROJECTS\M02106_Gordon_Geotechnical\014_Lot_27_Oak_Vista\[RingShearV1_3pts_T-1_27.5.xlsx]1
             Torsional Ring Shear Test to Determine Drained Residual Shear Strength of
             Cohesive Soils (ASTM 6467 )                                                                                                                                                 © IGES 2007, 2020



                     1600                                                                                                                  -0.037
                                                     1002 psf
                     1400                            2024 psf
                                                                                1490
                                                     4070 psf
                     1200                                                                                                                  -0.042




                                                                                                                Vertical deflection (in)
Shear stress (psf)




                     1000

                      800                                                                                                                  -0.047

                      600
                                                                                       669
                      400                                                                                                                  -0.052
                                                                                                                                                           1002 psf

                      200                                                                                                                                  2024 psf
                                                                                          263
                                                                                                                                                           4070 psf
                        0                                                                                                                  -0.057
                                      0.1                       1               10                    100                                           0                 1             10             100
                                                    Horizontal deflection / Rotation (deg.)                                                             Horizontal deflection / Rotation (deg.)
             Horizontal deflection (in) = Degrees rotation * 0.0292
                                                   2500



                                                   2000

                                                                                                                                                             1490
                              Shear stress (psf)




                                                   1500



                                                   1000                                         669


                                                    500                 263



                                                      0
                                                          0     500     1000       1500         2000    2500       3000                         3500        4000      4500   5000
                                                                                                  Normal stress (psf)

                                                   2500


                                                   2000

                                                                                                                                                             1490
                       Shear stress (psf)




                                                   1500


                                                   1000                                         669


                                                    500                 263



                                                      0
                                                          0     500    1000       1500       2000    2500       3000                            3500        4000      4500   5000
                                                                                               Normal stress (psf)

                                                                               Z:\PROJECTS\M02106_Gordon_Geotechnical\014_Lot_27_Oak_Vista\[RingShearV1_3pts_T-1_27.5.xlsx]1
                                                                GORDON
                                                        G
                                                            2
                                                                GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                ENGINEERING, INC.




                             APPENDIX B


                   Slope Stability Analysis Results

Slope Stability Model
                                             Explanation
      Run No.
       Run 1            Existing Slope – Constrained Slope Limits - Static
       Run 2            Existing Slope – Constrained Slope Limits - Seismic
       Run 3            Existing Slope – Unconstrained Slope Limits - Static
       Run 4            Existing Slope – Unconstrained Slope Limits - Seismic
       Run 5            Existing Slope – Translational Failure - Static
       Run 6            Existing Slope – Translational Failure - Seismic
       Run 7            Proposed Site Grading – Static
       Run 8            Proposed Site Grading – Seismic
       Run 9            Derivation of Ky = 0.065 – Seismic
      Run 10            Derivation of Ky = 0.135 – Seismic
6400

       Safety Factor
              0.00                                                                                                                                                                1.32
                       0.50
                       1.00
6350




                       1.50
                       2.00
                       2.50
                       3.00
6300




                       3.50
                       4.00
                       4.50
                       5.00
6250




                       5.50
                       6.00+
6200




                                                                            Unit Weight                          Cohesion Phi
                                           Material Name            Color                       Strength Type                   Water Surface Hu Type Hu
                                                                             (lbs/ 3)                              (psf)  (deg)
6150




                                     Indurated Block and Ash Rock               125            Mohr-Coulomb        250     36      Water Surface Custom    1

                                       Weathered Ash Deposits                   120            Mohr-Coulomb         0      16      Water Surface Custom    1
6100
6050
6000




                                                                                                                               W
5950
5900




           -100                -50     0              50              100                 150              200             250             300            350           400           450            500       550   600   650               700         750         800         850
                                                                              Project
                                                                                                                                                                                         Lot #27 Oak Vista                               Run 1 - Existing Slope Constrained - Static
                                                                              Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                                                            Slope Stability
                                                                              Drawn By                                                                          Scale                              Company
                                                                                                                         JKC                                                  1:723                                                 G2
                                                                              Date                                                                                                                 File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                                                 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                         A-A'.slim
                                                                                                 Slide Analysis Information
                                                                                                     Lot #27 Oak Vista

Project Summary

File Name: A-A'
Slide Modeler Version: 6.039
Project Title: Lot #27 Oak Vista
Analysis: Slope Stability
Author : JKC
Company : G2
Date Created: 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM


General Settings

Units of Measurement: Imperial Units
Time Units: days
Permeability Units: feet/second
Failure Direction: Left to Right
Data Output : Standard
Maximum Material Properties: 20
Maximum Support Properties: 20


Analysis Options

Analysis Methods Used

         Bishop simplified
         Janbu simplified

Number of slices: 25
Tolerance: 0.005
Maximum number of iterations: 50
Check malpha < 0.2: Yes
Initial trial value of FS: 1
Steffensen Iteration: Yes


Groundwater Analysis

Groundwater Method: Water Surfaces
Pore Fluid Unit Weight: 62.4 lbs/ft3
Advanced Groundwater Method: None


Random Numbers

Pseudo-random Seed: 10116
Random Number Generation Method: Park and Miller v.3


Surface Options

Surface Type: Circular
Search Method: Grid Search
Radius Increment: 10
Composite Surfaces: Disabled
Reverse Curvature: Create Tension Crack
Minimum Elevation : Not Defined
Minimum Depth: 30


Material Properties

         Property        Indurated Block and Ash Rock Weathered Ash Deposits
 Color                                             ___                   ___

 Strength Type                          Mohr-Coulomb          Mohr-Coulomb
 Unit Weight [lbs/ft3]                              125                  120
 Cohesion [psf]                                     250                     0
 Friction Angle [deg]                                36                  19.5
 Water Surface                             Water Table           Water Table
 Hu Value                                             1                     1



Global Minimums

Method: bishop simplified
         FS: 1.630110
         Center: 436.538, 6393.494
         Radius : 421.097
         Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 206.728, 6040.634
         Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 486.060, 5975.319
         Resisting Moment=9.71903e+007 lb-ft
         Driving Moment=5.96218e+007 lb-ft

                                                                  Project
                                                                                                                       Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                  Analysis Description
                                                                                                                         Slope Stability
                                                                  Drawn By                                     Scale            Company
                                                                                           JKC                                                 G2
                                                                  Date                                                          File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                         12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                            A-A'.slim
       Total Slice Area=5493.39 ft2


Method: janbu simplified
       FS: 1.586920
       Center: 436.538, 6375.723
       Radius : 405.731
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 208.706, 6040.000
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 495.714, 5974.331
       Resisting Horizontal Force=241297 lb
       Driving Horizontal Force=152053 lb
       Total Slice Area=5961.03 ft2


Valid / Invalid Surfaces

Method: bishop simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 625
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 9275


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 170 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 11 surfaces
              Error Code -104 reported for 3 surfaces
              Error Code -105 reported for 10 surfaces
              Error Code -115 reported for 1535 surfaces
              Error Code -1000 reported for 7546 surfaces


Method: janbu simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 625
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 9275


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 170 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 11 surfaces
              Error Code -104 reported for 3 surfaces
              Error Code -105 reported for 10 surfaces
              Error Code -115 reported for 1535 surfaces
              Error Code -1000 reported for 7546 surfaces


       Error Codes

              The following errors were encountered during the computation:

              -101 = Only one (or zero) surface / slope intersections.
              -103 = Two surface / slope intersections, but one or more surface / nonslope external polygon intersections lie between them. This usually occurs when the slip surface extends past the bottom of the soil region, but may also occur on a benched slope model with two
              sets of Slope Limits.
              -104 = Same as -102. Surface / nonslope intersections also exist, but these points lie outside the arc defined by the two surface / slope intersections.
              -105 = More than two surface / slope intersections with no valid slip surface.
              -115 = Surface too shallow, below the minimum depth.
              -1000 = No valid slip surfaces are generated at a grid center. Unable to draw a surface.


Slice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 1.63011
                                                           Base             Base        Shear     Shear        Base           Pore       Effective
  Slice    Width      Weight            Base
                                                         Cohesion      Friction Angle   Stress   Strength   Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
 Number     [ft]       [lbs]           Material
                                                           [psf]          [degrees]      [psf]     [psf]        [psf]         [psf]        [psf]
        1 11.1733 2732.84 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 46.7486     76.2054        215.198           0         215.198
        2 11.1733 7977.01 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 137.574     224.261        633.293           0         633.293
        3 11.1733 13441.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 233.622      380.83        1075.43           0         1075.43
        4 11.1733 19188.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 336.018     547.747        1546.79           0         1546.79
        5 11.1733 24245.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 427.631     697.086        1968.51           0         1968.51
        6 11.1733 28672.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 509.238     830.114        2344.17           0         2344.17
        7 11.1733 32708.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 584.853     953.374        2692.25           0         2692.25
        8 11.1733      35374 Weathered Ash Deposits                0             19.5 636.663     1037.83        2930.75           0         2930.75
        9 11.1733 33388.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 604.771     985.844        2783.94           0         2783.94
       10 11.1733 32830.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 598.404     975.465        2754.63           0         2754.63
       11 11.1733 35666.4 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 654.079     1066.22        3010.93           0         3010.93
       12 11.1733      38066 Weathered Ash Deposits                0             19.5 702.302     1144.83        3232.91           0         3232.91
       13 11.1733 39957.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 741.588     1208.87        3413.74           0         3413.74
       14 11.1733 40672.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 759.305     1237.75          3495.3          0          3495.3
       15 11.1733 39482.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 741.386     1208.54        3412.82           0         3412.82
       16 11.1733 39655.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 748.937     1220.85        3447.56           0         3447.56
       17 11.1733 38333.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 728.141     1186.95        3351.84           0         3351.84
       18 11.1733 35337.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 675.083     1100.46        3107.61           0         3107.61
       19 11.1733 32159.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 617.885     1007.22          2844.3          0          2844.3
       20 11.1733 27841.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 538.006     877.009          2476.6          0          2476.6
       21 11.1733 22434.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 436.005     710.736        2007.06           0         2007.06
       22 11.1733 17710.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 346.197     564.339        1593.64           0         1593.64
       23 11.1733 12567.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 247.089     402.783        1137.43           0         1137.43
       24 11.1733 7009.54 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 138.632     225.985        638.161           0         638.161
       25 11.1733 1753.46 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 34.8862     56.8684        160.592           0         160.592

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 1.58692


                                                                       Project
                                                                                                                                                            Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                       Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                                  Slope Stability
                                                                       Drawn By                                                               Scale                             Company
                                                                                                       JKC                                                                                                                         G2
                                                                       Date                                                                                                     File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                  12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                                                    A-A'.slim
                                                          Base              Base        Shear     Shear        Base           Pore       Effective
  Slice     Width   Weight             Base
                                                        Cohesion       Friction Angle   Stress   Strength   Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
 Number      [ft]    [lbs]            Material
                                                          [psf]           [degrees]      [psf]     [psf]        [psf]         [psf]        [psf]
        1 11.4803 3270.42 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 55.4724     88.0302          248.59          0          248.59
        2 11.4803 9229.47 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 157.988     250.714        707.994           0         707.994
        3 11.4803 15582.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 269.061     426.979        1205.75           0         1205.75
        4 11.4803 21936.6 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 381.937     606.104        1711.59           0         1711.59
        5 11.4803 27407.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 480.993     763.297        2155.49           0         2155.49
        6 11.4803 32244.4 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5   570.24    904.925        2555.43           0         2555.43
        7 11.4803 36683.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 653.574     1037.17        2928.87           0         2928.87
        8 11.4803 37914.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 680.362     1079.68        3048.92           0         3048.92
        9 11.4803       35490 Weathered Ash Deposits               0             19.5   641.33    1017.74        2874.02           0         2874.02
       10 11.4803 37435.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 681.131      1080.9        3052.37           0         3052.37
       11 11.4803 40406.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 740.126     1174.52        3316.73           0         3316.73
       12 11.4803 42877.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 790.557     1254.55        3542.75           0         3542.75
       13 11.4803 44512.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 826.053     1310.88        3701.81           0         3701.81
       14 11.4803 43987.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 821.554     1303.74        3681.66           0         3681.66
       15 11.4803 43891.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 824.982     1309.18        3697.01           0         3697.01
       16 11.4803 43210.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 817.319     1297.02        3662.67           0         3662.67
       17 11.4803 40906.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 778.609     1235.59        3489.19           0         3489.19
       18 11.4803 37284.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 714.113     1133.24        3200.18           0         3200.18
       19 11.4803 33589.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 647.392     1027.36        2901.17           0         2901.17
       20 11.4803 27939.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 541.898     859.948        2428.42           0         2428.42
       21 11.4803 22742.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 443.899     704.432        1989.25           0         1989.25
       22 11.4803 17442.4 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5   342.62     543.71        1535.39           0         1535.39
       23 11.4803 11689.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 231.095      366.73        1035.61           0         1035.61
       24 11.4803 5787.16 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5   115.16    182.749        516.066           0         516.066
       25 11.4803 1860.32 Weathered Ash Deposits                   0             19.5 37.2648     59.1362        166.996           0         166.996



Interslice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 1.63011
             X                    Y             Interslice     Interslice        Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate       coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force   Shear Force       Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                 [ft]              [lbs]          [lbs]          [degrees]
        1     206.728               6040.63               0                 0             0
        2     217.902                 6033.6        990.902                 0             0
        3     229.075               6027.05         3606.01                 0             0
        4     240.248               6020.95         7562.76                 0             0
        5     251.421               6015.27         12591.2                 0             0
        6     262.595                  6010         18184.7                 0             0
        7     273.768               6005.13         23925.3                 0             0
        8     284.941               6000.63         29500.3                 0             0
        9     296.114                 5996.5        34498.9                 0             0
       10     307.288               5992.72         38261.7                 0             0
       11     318.461               5989.29         41037.4                 0             0
       12     329.634               5986.19         43061.7                 0             0
       13     340.807               5983.42         44175.8                 0             0
       14     351.981               5980.97           44256                 0             0
       15     363.154               5978.84         43235.7                 0             0
       16     374.327               5977.02         41179.5                 0             0
       17       385.5                 5975.5        38045.7                 0             0
       18     396.674               5974.29         33982.7                 0             0
       19     407.847               5973.38         29281.7                 0             0
       20      419.02               5972.76         24129.7                 0             0
       21     430.193               5972.44         18907.5                 0             0
       22     441.367               5972.42         14080.1                 0             0
       23      452.54                 5972.7        9774.37                 0             0
       24     463.713               5973.27         6363.26                 0             0
       25     474.886               5974.15         4259.01                 0             0
       26      486.06               5975.32               0                 0             0

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 1.58692
             X                    Y             Interslice     Interslice        Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate       coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force   Shear Force       Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                 [ft]              [lbs]          [lbs]          [degrees]
        1     208.706                  6040               0                 0             0
        2     220.187               6032.49         1230.36                 0             0
        3     231.667               6025.52         4354.28                 0             0
        4     243.147               6019.05         9064.98                 0             0
        5     254.628               6013.06           14933                 0             0
        6     266.108               6007.52         21341.9                 0             0
        7     277.588               6002.42         27828.7                 0             0
        8     289.068               5997.74         34041.3                 0             0
        9     300.549               5993.46         39283.2                 0             0
       10     312.029               5989.57         43107.6                 0             0
       11     323.509               5986.05         46018.8                 0             0
       12      334.99               5982.91         47965.7                 0             0
       13      346.47               5980.12         48776.7                 0             0
       14      357.95               5977.68         48326.6                 0             0
       15      369.43               5975.58         46612.1                 0             0


                                                                       Project
                                                                                                                                                       Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                       Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                         Slope Stability
                                                                       Drawn By                                                               Scale             Company
                                                                                                       JKC                                                                     G2
                                                                       Date                                                                                     File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                  12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                   A-A'.slim
      16        380.911     5973.82   43638.2      0          0
      17        392.391      5972.4   39467.5      0          0
      18        403.871     5971.31   34340.3      0          0
      19        415.352     5970.55   28587.8      0          0
      20        426.832     5970.11   22426.3      0          0
      21        438.312       5970    16479.2      0          0
      22        449.793     5970.21   10961.2      0          0
      23        461.273     5970.75   6202.52      0          0
      24        472.753     5971.61   2654.46      0          0
      25        484.233     5972.81     716.7      0          0
      26        495.714     5974.33        0       0          0



List Of Coordinates

Water Table

            X           Y
       1.60415 5968.62
       513.246 5968.62


External Boundary

            X       Y
       1.60415 5900
       445.376 5900
       513.246 5900
       513.246 5976
       502.287 5974
       498.945 5974
           479.41 5976
       471.888 5978
       466.281 5980
       459.281 5982
       452.637 5984
       446.461 5986
       438.912 5988
       433.366 5990
           428.19 5992
       422.828 5994
       418.135 5996
       409.229 5998
       402.248 6000
       397.593 6002
       388.863 6004
       379.723 6006
       363.698 6008
       360.261 6010
       346.925 6012
       327.399 6014
       307.856 6016
           304.47 6018
       300.911 6020
       297.149 6022
       293.288 6024
       288.418 6026
       274.197 6028
       261.525 6030
       248.946 6032
       234.291 6034
       224.099 6036
       217.141 6038
       208.706 6040
       202.471 6042
       197.769 6044
       193.429 6046
       189.075 6048
       184.774 6050
       181.197 6052
            177.1 6054
       172.616 6056
       168.085 6058
       164.144 6060
           159.61 6062
       154.835 6064
       150.338 6066
       143.192 6068
       132.885 6070
       123.564 6072
       113.812 6074
       106.804 6076


                                                Project
                                                                                                   Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                Analysis Description
                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                                         JKC                                               G2
                                                Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                       12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A'.slim
        103.42 6078
       89.8716 6080
        85.293 6082
       77.3063 6084
       69.4285 6086
       61.6776 6088
       1.60415 6090


Material Boundary

         X      Y
       202.471 6042
       445.376 5900




                       Project
                                                                          Lot #27 Oak Vista
                       Analysis Description
                                                                            Slope Stability
                       Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                JKC                                               G2
                       Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                              12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A'.slim
         Safety Factor
6400



                0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.60
                       0.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.25
                       1.00
                       1.50
6350




                       2.00
                       2.50
                       3.00
6300




                       3.50
                       4.00
                       4.50
                       5.00
6250




                       5.50
                       6.00+
6200




                                                                                  Unit Weight                      Cohesion Phi
                                            Material Name             Color                       Strength Type                   Water Surface Hu Type Hu
                                                                                   (lbs/ 3)                          (psf)  (deg)
6150




                                      Indurated Block and Ash Rock                    125       Mohr-Coulomb            250       36    Water Surface Custom       1

                                        Weathered Ash Deposits                        120       Mohr-Coulomb             0        16    Water Surface Custom       1
6100
6050
6000




                                                                                                                                    W
5950
5900




       -150              -100   -50     0              50                   100             150              200                  250           300               350     400         450             500   550   600        650        700         750         800
                                                                     Project
                                                                                                                                                                                Lot #27 Oak Vista                         Run 2 - Existing Slope Constrained - Seismic
                                                                     Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                                                  Slope Stability
                                                                     Drawn By                                                                                  Scale                      Company
                                                                                                                  JKC                                                   1:723                                              G2
                                                                     Date                                                                                                                 File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                                             12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                    A-A'.slim
                                                                                                 Slide Analysis Information
                                                                                                     Lot #27 Oak Vista

Project Summary

File Name: A-A'
Slide Modeler Version: 6.039
Project Title: Lot #27 Oak Vista
Analysis: Slope Stability
Author : JKC
Company : G2
Date Created: 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM


General Settings

Units of Measurement: Imperial Units
Time Units: days
Permeability Units: feet/second
Failure Direction: Left to Right
Data Output : Standard
Maximum Material Properties: 20
Maximum Support Properties: 20


Analysis Options

Analysis Methods Used

         Bishop simplified
         Janbu simplified

Number of slices: 25
Tolerance: 0.005
Maximum number of iterations: 50
Check malpha < 0.2: Yes
Initial trial value of FS: 1
Steffensen Iteration: Yes


Groundwater Analysis

Groundwater Method: Water Surfaces
Pore Fluid Unit Weight: 62.4 lbs/ft3
Advanced Groundwater Method: None


Random Numbers

Pseudo-random Seed: 10116
Random Number Generation Method: Park and Miller v.3


Surface Options

Surface Type: Circular
Search Method: Grid Search
Radius Increment: 10
Composite Surfaces: Disabled
Reverse Curvature: Create Tension Crack
Minimum Elevation : Not Defined
Minimum Depth: 30


Loading

Seismic Load Coefficient (Horizontal): 0.25


Material Properties

         Property        Indurated Block and Ash Rock Weathered Ash Deposits
 Color                                           ___                     ___
 Strength Type                         Mohr-Coulomb           Mohr-Coulomb
 Unit Weight [lbs/ft3]                           125                     120
 Cohesion [psf]                                  250                        0
 Friction Angle [deg]                             36                     19.5
 Water Surface                            Water Table            Water Table
 Hu Value                                          1                        1



Global Minimums

Method: bishop simplified
         FS: 0.739867

                                                                  Project
                                                                                                                       Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                  Analysis Description
                                                                                                                         Slope Stability
                                                                  Drawn By                                     Scale            Company
                                                                                           JKC                                                 G2
                                                                  Date                                                          File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                         12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                            A-A'.slim
       Center: 436.538, 6393.494
       Radius : 421.097
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 206.728, 6040.634
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 486.060, 5975.319
       Resisting Moment=9.21913e+007 lb-ft
       Driving Moment=1.24605e+008 lb-ft
       Total Slice Area=5493.39 ft2


Method: janbu simplified
       FS: 0.717615
       Center: 436.538, 6393.494
       Radius : 421.097
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 206.728, 6040.634
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 486.060, 5975.319
       Resisting Horizontal Force=210885 lb
       Driving Horizontal Force=293869 lb
       Total Slice Area=5493.39 ft2


Valid / Invalid Surfaces

Method: bishop simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 625
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 9275


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 170 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 11 surfaces
              Error Code -104 reported for 3 surfaces
              Error Code -105 reported for 10 surfaces
              Error Code -115 reported for 1535 surfaces
              Error Code -1000 reported for 7546 surfaces


Method: janbu simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 625
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 9275


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 170 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 11 surfaces
              Error Code -104 reported for 3 surfaces
              Error Code -105 reported for 10 surfaces
              Error Code -115 reported for 1535 surfaces
              Error Code -1000 reported for 7546 surfaces


       Error Codes

              The following errors were encountered during the computation:

              -101 = Only one (or zero) surface / slope intersections.
              -103 = Two surface / slope intersections, but one or more surface / nonslope external polygon intersections lie between them. This usually occurs when the slip surface extends past the bottom of the soil region, but may also occur on a benched slope model with two
              sets of Slope Limits.
              -104 = Same as -102. Surface / nonslope intersections also exist, but these points lie outside the arc defined by the two surface / slope intersections.
              -105 = More than two surface / slope intersections with no valid slip surface.
              -115 = Surface too shallow, below the minimum depth.
              -1000 = No valid slip surfaces are generated at a grid center. Unable to draw a surface.


Slice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.739867
                                                           Base           Base        Shear     Shear        Base            Pore        Effective
  Slice    Width      Weight            Base
                                                         Cohesion    Friction Angle   Stress   Strength   Normal Stress    Pressure    Normal Stress
 Number     [ft]       [lbs]           Material
                                                           [psf]        [degrees]      [psf]     [psf]        [psf]          [psf]         [psf]
        1 11.1733 2732.84 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 89.9823     66.5749          188.002           0         188.002
        2 11.1733 7977.01 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 266.826     197.416          557.485           0         557.485
        3 11.1733 13441.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 456.467     337.725          953.704           0         953.704
        4 11.1733 19188.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 661.266     489.249          1381.59           0         1381.59
        5 11.1733 24245.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 847.477      627.02          1770.65           0         1770.65
        6 11.1733 28672.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1016.16     751.824          2123.08           0         2123.08
        7 11.1733 32708.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1174.95     869.306          2454.85           0         2454.85
        8 11.1733      35374 Weathered Ash Deposits              0             19.5 1287.58     952.636          2690.16           0         2690.16
        9 11.1733 33388.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1231.14     910.883          2572.25           0         2572.25
       10 11.1733 32830.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1226.14     907.183           2561.8           0          2561.8
       11 11.1733 35666.4 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1348.92     998.025          2818.34           0         2818.34
       12 11.1733      38066 Weathered Ash Deposits              0             19.5 1457.73     1078.53          3045.68           0         3045.68
       13 11.1733 39957.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5   1549.2     1146.2          3236.78           0         3236.78
       14 11.1733 40672.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1596.45     1181.16          3335.49           0         3335.49
       15 11.1733 39482.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1568.86     1160.75          3277.86           0         3277.86
       16 11.1733 39655.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1595.14     1180.19          3332.75           0         3332.75
       17 11.1733 38333.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1561.01     1154.94          3261.43           0         3261.43
       18 11.1733 35337.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1456.83     1077.86          3043.78           0         3043.78
       19 11.1733 32159.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5   1342.3    993.127           2804.5           0          2804.5
       20 11.1733 27841.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5   1176.7    870.599          2458.49           0         2458.49
       21 11.1733 22434.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 960.175     710.402          2006.12           0         2006.12
       22 11.1733 17710.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 767.747     568.031          1604.07           0         1604.07


                                                                     Project
                                                                                                                                                            Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                     Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                                  Slope Stability
                                                                     Drawn By                                                                 Scale                             Company
                                                                                                     JKC                                                                                                                           G2
                                                                     Date                                                                                                       File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                                                     A-A'.slim
       23 11.1733 12567.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 551.887     408.323        1153.07           0         1153.07
       24 11.1733 7009.54 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5   311.91    230.772          651.68          0          651.68
       25 11.1733 1753.46 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 79.0816     58.5099        165.226           0         165.226

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.717615
                                                          Base            Base        Shear     Shear        Base           Pore       Effective
  Slice     Width   Weight             Base
                                                        Cohesion     Friction Angle   Stress   Strength   Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
 Number      [ft]    [lbs]            Material
                                                          [psf]         [degrees]      [psf]     [psf]        [psf]         [psf]        [psf]
        1 11.1733 2732.84 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5   92.102    66.0938        186.643           0         186.643
        2 11.1733 7977.01 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 273.216     196.064        553.668           0         553.668
        3 11.1733 13441.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 467.572     335.537        947.531           0         947.531
        4 11.1733 19188.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 677.604     486.259        1373.15           0         1373.15
        5 11.1733 24245.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 868.726     623.411        1760.46           0         1760.46
        6 11.1733 28672.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1042.01     747.762        2111.62           0         2111.62
        7 11.1733 32708.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1205.26     864.914        2442.44           0         2442.44
        8 11.1733       35374 Weathered Ash Deposits            0              19.5 1321.26     948.154          2677.5          0          2677.5
        9 11.1733 33388.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1263.78     906.911        2561.04           0         2561.04
       10 11.1733 32830.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1259.09     903.541        2551.52           0         2551.52
       11 11.1733 35666.4 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1385.65     994.362        2807.99           0         2807.99
       12 11.1733       38066 Weathered Ash Deposits            0              19.5 1497.95     1074.95        3035.55           0         3035.55
       13 11.1733 39957.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1592.48     1142.79        3227.15           0         3227.15
       14 11.1733 40672.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1641.63     1178.06        3326.74           0         3326.74
       15 11.1733 39482.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1613.83     1158.11        3270.41           0         3270.41
       16 11.1733 39655.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1641.45     1177.93        3326.37           0         3326.37
       17 11.1733 38333.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1606.91     1153.14        3256.38           0         3256.38
       18 11.1733 35337.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1500.23     1076.59        3040.19           0         3040.19
       19 11.1733 32159.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1382.81     992.328        2802.25           0         2802.25
       20 11.1733 27841.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1212.67     870.233        2457.46           0         2457.46
       21 11.1733 22434.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 989.922     710.383        2006.05           0         2006.05
       22 11.1733 17710.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 791.852     568.245        1604.67           0         1604.67
       23 11.1733 12567.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 569.452     408.647        1153.98           0         1153.98
       24 11.1733 7009.54 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 321.975     231.054        652.476           0         652.476
       25 11.1733 1753.46 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 81.6696     58.6073        165.501           0         165.501



Interslice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.739867
             X                    Y             Interslice     Interslice      Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate       coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force   Shear Force     Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                 [ft]              [lbs]          [lbs]        [degrees]
        1     206.728               6040.63               0               0             0
        2     217.902                 6033.6        999.974               0             0
        3     229.075               6027.05         3668.59               0             0
        4     240.248               6020.95         7753.21               0             0
        5     251.421               6015.27         13007.8               0             0
        6     262.595                  6010         18930.7               0             0
        7     273.768               6005.13           25099               0             0
        8     284.941               6000.63         31192.2               0             0
        9     296.114                 5996.5        36769.4               0             0
       10     307.288               5992.72         41082.9               0             0
       11     318.461               5989.29         44392.2               0             0
       12     329.634               5986.19         46974.8               0             0
       13     340.807               5983.42         48648.4               0             0
       14     351.981               5980.97         49263.3               0             0
       15     363.154               5978.84           48719               0             0
       16     374.327               5977.02         47044.4               0             0
       17       385.5                 5975.5          44198               0             0
       18     396.674               5974.29         40305.6               0             0
       19     407.847               5973.38         35648.6               0             0
       20      419.02               5972.76         30420.2               0             0
       21     430.193               5972.44         25018.5               0             0
       22     441.367               5972.42         19944.6               0             0
       23      452.54                 5972.7        15354.8               0             0
       24     463.713               5973.27           11672               0             0
       25     474.886               5974.15         9372.79               0             0
       26      486.06               5975.32               0               0             0

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.717615
             X                    Y             Interslice     Interslice      Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate       coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force   Shear Force     Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                 [ft]              [lbs]          [lbs]        [degrees]
        1     206.728               6040.63               0               0             0
        2     217.902                 6033.6        966.303               0             0
        3     229.075               6027.05         3537.21               0             0
        4     240.248               6020.95         7457.82               0             0
        5     251.421               6015.27         12478.8               0             0
        6     262.595                  6010         18106.4               0             0
        7     273.768               6005.13         23925.1               0             0
        8     284.941               6000.63         29618.1               0             0
        9     296.114                 5996.5        34760.5               0             0
       10     307.288               5992.72         38660.9               0             0
       11     318.461               5989.29         41560.9               0             0

                                                                     Project
                                                                                                                                                     Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                     Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                       Slope Stability
                                                                     Drawn By                                                               Scale             Company
                                                                                                     JKC                                                                     G2
                                                                     Date                                                                                     File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                   A-A'.slim
      12        329.634     5986.19   43694.7      0          0
      13        340.807     5983.42   44883.9      0          0
      14        351.981     5980.97    44984       0          0
      15        363.154     5978.84   43908.5      0          0
      16        374.327     5977.02   41710.3      0          0
      17          385.5      5975.5    38329       0          0
      18        396.674     5974.29   33909.9      0          0
      19        407.847     5973.38   28757.7      0          0
      20         419.02     5972.76   23068.8      0          0
      21        430.193     5972.44   17259.1      0          0
      22        441.367     5972.42   11848.2      0          0
      23         452.54      5972.7   6985.25      0          0
      24        463.713     5973.27   3102.91      0          0
      25        474.886     5974.15    689.09      0          0
      26         486.06     5975.32        0       0          0



List Of Coordinates

Water Table

            X           Y
       1.60415 5968.62
       513.246 5968.62


External Boundary

            X       Y
       1.60415 5900
       445.376 5900
       513.246 5900
       513.246 5976
       502.287 5974
       498.945 5974
           479.41 5976
       471.888 5978
       466.281 5980
       459.281 5982
       452.637 5984
       446.461 5986
       438.912 5988
       433.366 5990
           428.19 5992
       422.828 5994
       418.135 5996
       409.229 5998
       402.248 6000
       397.593 6002
       388.863 6004
       379.723 6006
       363.698 6008
       360.261 6010
       346.925 6012
       327.399 6014
       307.856 6016
           304.47 6018
       300.911 6020
       297.149 6022
       293.288 6024
       288.418 6026
       274.197 6028
       261.525 6030
       248.946 6032
       234.291 6034
       224.099 6036
       217.141 6038
       208.706 6040
       202.471 6042
       197.769 6044
       193.429 6046
       189.075 6048
       184.774 6050
       181.197 6052
            177.1 6054
       172.616 6056
       168.085 6058
       164.144 6060
           159.61 6062
       154.835 6064
       150.338 6066
       143.192 6068


                                                Project
                                                                                                   Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                Analysis Description
                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                                         JKC                                               G2
                                                Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                       12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A'.slim
       132.885 6070
       123.564 6072
       113.812 6074
       106.804 6076
        103.42 6078
       89.8716 6080
        85.293 6082
       77.3063 6084
       69.4285 6086
       61.6776 6088
       1.60415 6090


Material Boundary

         X      Y
       202.471 6042
       445.376 5900




                       Project
                                                                          Lot #27 Oak Vista
                       Analysis Description
                                                                            Slope Stability
                       Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                JKC                                               G2
                       Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                              12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A'.slim
       Safety Factor
              0.0
              0.3
              0.5
              0.8
              1.0
              1.3
6400




              1.5
              1.8                                                                                                                                   1.5
              2.0
              2.3
              2.5
              2.8
              3.0
              3.3
              3.5
              3.8
6300




              4.0
              4.3
              4.5
              4.8
              5.0
              5.3
              5.5
              5.8
              6.0+
6200




                                                                                                                                           Unit Weight                         Cohesion Phi
                                                                                                          Material Name            Color                   Strength Type                      Water Surface Hu Type Hu
                                                                                                                                            (lbs/ 3)                             (psf)  (deg)
6100




                                                                                                    Indurated Block and Ash Rock              125         Mohr-Coulomb           250         36   Water Surface Custom    1

                                                                                                           Ash Deposits                       120         Mohr-Coulomb            0          16   Water Surface Custom    1
6000




                                                                                               W
5900




        -200           -150   -100   -50   0   50                100   150     200           250         300            350           400            450                 500           550           600          650           700        750       800        850
                                               Project
                                                                                                                                                Lot #27 Oak Vista                                                        Run 3 - Existing Slope Unconstrained - Static1
                                               Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                    Slope Stability
                                               Drawn By                                                             Scale                                    Company
                                                                             JKC                                                     1:807                                                                                G2
                                               Date                                                                                                          File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                     12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                                                 A-A' upslope stability.slim
                                                                                                         Slide Analysis Information
                                                                                                             Lot #27 Oak Vista

Project Summary

File Name: A-A' upslope stability
Slide Modeler Version: 6.039
Project Title: Lot #27 Oak Vista
Analysis: Slope Stability
Author : JKC
Company : G2
Date Created: 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM


General Settings

Units of Measurement: Imperial Units
Time Units: days
Permeability Units: feet/second
Failure Direction: Left to Right
Data Output : Standard
Maximum Material Properties: 20
Maximum Support Properties: 20


Analysis Options

Analysis Methods Used

         Bishop simplified
         Janbu simplified

Number of slices: 25
Tolerance: 0.005
Maximum number of iterations: 50
Check malpha < 0.2: Yes
Initial trial value of FS: 1
Steffensen Iteration: Yes


Groundwater Analysis

Groundwater Method: Water Surfaces
Pore Fluid Unit Weight: 62.4 lbs/ft3
Advanced Groundwater Method: None


Random Numbers

Pseudo-random Seed: 10116
Random Number Generation Method: Park and Miller v.3


Surface Options

Surface Type: Circular
Search Method: Grid Search
Radius Increment: 1
Composite Surfaces: Disabled
Reverse Curvature: Create Tension Crack
Minimum Elevation : Not Defined
Minimum Depth: Not Defined


Material Properties

         Property        Indurated Block and Ash Rock      Ash Deposits
 Color                                             ___              ___

 Strength Type                          Mohr-Coulomb       Mohr-Coulomb
 Unit Weight [lbs/ft3]                              125             120
 Cohesion [psf]                                     250                   0
 Friction Angle [deg]                                36               16
 Water Surface                             Water Table       Water Table
 Hu Value                                             1                   1



Global Minimums

Method: bishop simplified
         FS: 0.555318
         Center: 359.433, 6142.774
         Radius : 136.144
         Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 291.844, 6024.593
         Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 302.505, 6019.104
         Resisting Moment=9101.93 lb-ft
         Driving Moment=16390.5 lb-ft

                                                                          Project
                                                                                                                               Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                          Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                 Slope Stability
                                                                          Drawn By                                     Scale            Company
                                                                                                   JKC                                                          G2
                                                                          Date                                                          File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                            A-A' upslope stability.slim
       Total Slice Area=2.18298 ft2


Method: janbu simplified
       FS: 0.553982
       Center: 359.433, 6142.774
       Radius : 136.144
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 291.844, 6024.593
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 302.505, 6019.104
       Resisting Horizontal Force=59.2403 lb
       Driving Horizontal Force=106.935 lb
       Total Slice Area=2.18298 ft2


Valid / Invalid Surfaces

Method: bishop simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 830
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 52


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 30 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 16 surfaces
              Error Code -106 reported for 6 surfaces


Method: janbu simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 830
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 52


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 30 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 16 surfaces
              Error Code -106 reported for 6 surfaces


       Error Codes

              The following errors were encountered during the computation:

              -101 = Only one (or zero) surface / slope intersections.
              -103 = Two surface / slope intersections, but one or more surface / nonslope external polygon intersections lie between them. This usually occurs when the slip surface extends past the bottom of the soil region, but may also occur on a benched slope model with two
              sets of Slope Limits.
              -106 = Average slice width is less than 0.0001 * (maximum horizontal extent of soil region). This limitation is imposed to avoid numerical errors which may result from too many slices, or too small a slip region.


Slice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.555318
                                                 Base             Base        Shear      Shear        Base           Pore       Effective
  Slice     Width     Weight       Base
                                               Cohesion      Friction Angle   Stress    Strength   Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
 Number      [ft]      [lbs]      Material
                                                 [psf]          [degrees]      [psf]      [psf]        [psf]         [psf]        [psf]
        1 0.426478 1.73371 Ash Deposits                  0               16 1.62467 0.902209             3.14637          0         3.14637
        2 0.426478 5.14919 Ash Deposits                  0               16 4.83447      2.68467         9.36256          0         9.36256
        3 0.426478 8.46111 Ash Deposits                  0               16 7.95894      4.41974         15.4135          0         15.4135
        4 0.426478     11.231 Ash Deposits               0               16 10.5843      5.87763         20.4977          0         20.4977
        5 0.426478 12.1711 Ash Deposits                  0               16 11.4916      6.38152          22.255          0          22.255
        6 0.426478 12.8333 Ash Deposits                  0               16 12.1395      6.74126         23.5095          0         23.5095
        7 0.426478 13.3944 Ash Deposits                  0               16 12.6937      7.04906         24.5831          0         24.5831
        8 0.426478     13.855 Ash Deposits               0               16 13.1545      7.30491         25.4752          0         25.4752
        9 0.426478 14.2156 Ash Deposits                  0               16 13.5217      7.50882         26.1864          0         26.1864
       10 0.426478 14.4768 Ash Deposits                  0               16 13.7954      7.66082         26.7164          0         26.7164
       11 0.426478 14.6392 Ash Deposits                  0               16 13.9756      7.76089         27.0655          0         27.0655
       12 0.426478 14.7033 Ash Deposits                  0               16 14.0623      7.80905         27.2334          0         27.2334
       13 0.426478 14.6232 Ash Deposits                  0               16    14.011    7.78057         27.1341          0         27.1341
       14 0.426478 14.2237 Ash Deposits                  0               16 13.6528      7.58167         26.4404          0         26.4404
       15 0.426478 13.6985 Ash Deposits                  0               16 13.1724      7.31488         25.5101          0         25.5101
       16 0.426478 13.0772 Ash Deposits                  0               16 12.5975      6.99562         24.3966          0         24.3966
       17 0.426478 12.3602 Ash Deposits                  0               16 11.9281      6.62388         23.1002          0         23.1002
       18 0.426478 11.5481 Ash Deposits                  0               16 11.1642      6.19967         21.6209          0         21.6209
       19 0.426478 10.6413 Ash Deposits                  0               16 10.3058      5.72297         19.9584          0         19.9584
       20 0.426478 9.64024 Ash Deposits                  0               16    9.3528    5.19378         18.1129          0         18.1129
       21 0.426478 8.54552 Ash Deposits                  0               16 8.30535      4.61211         16.0843          0         16.0843
       22 0.426478 7.17678 Ash Deposits                  0               16 6.98733      3.88019         13.5318          0         13.5318
       23 0.426478 5.25447 Ash Deposits                  0               16 5.12472      2.84585         9.92465          0         9.92465
       24 0.426478 3.21697 Ash Deposits                  0               16 3.14301      1.74537         6.08684          0         6.08684
       25 0.426478     1.0876 Ash Deposits               0               16 1.06444 0.591105             2.06143          0         2.06143

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.553982
                                                 Base             Base        Shear      Shear        Base           Pore       Effective
  Slice     Width     Weight       Base
                                               Cohesion      Friction Angle   Stress    Strength   Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
 Number      [ft]      [lbs]      Material
                                                 [psf]          [degrees]      [psf]      [psf]        [psf]         [psf]        [psf]
        1 0.426478 1.73371 Ash Deposits                  0               16 1.62503 0.900237             3.13951          0         3.13951
        2 0.426478 5.14919 Ash Deposits                  0               16 4.83561      2.67884         9.34222          0         9.34222
        3 0.426478 8.46111 Ash Deposits                  0               16 7.96091       4.4102         15.3802          0         15.3802
        4 0.426478     11.231 Ash Deposits               0               16    10.587    5.86503         20.4538          0         20.4538
        5 0.426478 12.1711 Ash Deposits                  0               16 11.4948      6.36793         22.2075          0         22.2075

                                                                        Project
                                                                                                                                                            Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                        Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                                  Slope Stability
                                                                        Drawn By                                                              Scale                             Company
                                                                                                        JKC                                                                                                                        G2
                                                                        Date                                                                                                    File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                   12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                                  A-A' upslope stability.slim
        6 0.426478 12.8333 Ash Deposits               0              16       12.143     6.727     23.4599   0   23.4599
        7 0.426478 13.3944 Ash Deposits               0              16 12.6976        7.03424     24.5313   0   24.5313
        8 0.426478      13.855 Ash Deposits           0              16 13.1587        7.28966     25.4222   0   25.4222
        9 0.426478 14.2156 Ash Deposits               0              16 13.5262        7.49325      26.132   0    26.132
       10 0.426478 14.4768 Ash Deposits               0              16 13.8002        7.64504     26.6614   0   26.6614
       11 0.426478 14.6392 Ash Deposits               0              16 13.9806        7.74501       27.01   0     27.01
       12 0.426478 14.7033 Ash Deposits               0              16 14.0676        7.79318      27.178   0    27.178
       13 0.426478 14.6232 Ash Deposits               0              16 14.0165        7.76487     27.0793   0   27.0793
       14 0.426478 14.2237 Ash Deposits               0              16 13.6583        7.56647     26.3873   0   26.3873
       15 0.426478 13.6985 Ash Deposits               0              16 13.1779        7.30032     25.4592   0   25.4592
       16 0.426478 13.0772 Ash Deposits               0              16 12.6029        6.98179     24.3484   0   24.3484
       17 0.426478 12.3602 Ash Deposits               0              16 11.9334        6.61088     23.0549   0   23.0549
       18 0.426478 11.5481 Ash Deposits               0              16 11.1693        6.18758     21.5786   0   21.5786
       19 0.426478 10.6413 Ash Deposits               0              16 10.3106        5.71189     19.9197   0   19.9197
       20 0.426478 9.64024 Ash Deposits               0              16 9.35734         5.1838     18.0781   0   18.0781
       21 0.426478 8.54552 Ash Deposits               0              16 8.30948         4.6033     16.0536   0   16.0536
       22 0.426478 7.17678 Ash Deposits               0              16       6.9909   3.87283     13.5062   0   13.5062
       23 0.426478 5.25447 Ash Deposits               0              16       5.1274   2.84049     9.90598   0   9.90598
       24 0.426478 3.21697 Ash Deposits               0              16 3.14471        1.74211     6.07547   0   6.07547
       25 0.426478      1.0876 Ash Deposits           0              16 1.06503 0.590009           2.05761   0   2.05761



Interslice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.555318
             X                   Y             Interslice      Interslice       Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate      coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force    Shear Force      Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                [ft]              [lbs]           [lbs]         [degrees]
        1     291.844               6024.59               0               0              0
        2      292.27               6024.35      0.0761876                0              0
        3     292.696               6024.11        0.283891               0              0
        4     293.123               6023.87        0.594734               0              0
        5     293.549               6023.63        0.967004               0              0
        6     293.976                6023.4         1.32682               0              0
        7     294.402               6023.17         1.66034               0              0
        8     294.829               6022.94         1.96065               0              0
        9     295.255               6022.71         2.22195               0              0
       10     295.682               6022.48         2.43955               0              0
       11     296.108               6022.25         2.60982               0              0
       12     296.535               6022.03         2.73018               0              0
       13     296.961               6021.81         2.79914               0              0
       14     297.388               6021.59         2.81616               0              0
       15     297.814               6021.37         2.78266               0              0
       16     298.241               6021.16         2.70228               0              0
       17     298.667               6020.94         2.57968               0              0
       18     299.094               6020.73         2.42052               0              0
       19      299.52               6020.52         2.23146               0              0
       20     299.947               6020.31         2.02012               0              0
       21     300.373               6020.11         1.79506               0              0
       22       300.8                6019.9         1.56583               0              0
       23     301.226                6019.7         1.34839               0              0
       24     301.653                6019.5         1.17096               0              0
       25     302.079                6019.3         1.05119               0              0
       26     302.505                6019.1               0               0              0

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.553982
             X                   Y             Interslice      Interslice       Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate      coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force    Shear Force      Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                [ft]              [lbs]           [lbs]         [degrees]
        1     291.844               6024.59               0               0              0
        2      292.27               6024.35      0.0693673                0              0
        3     292.696               6024.11         0.25682               0              0
        4     293.123               6023.87        0.534395               0              0
        5     293.549               6023.63        0.862518               0              0
        6     293.976                6023.4          1.1745               0              0
        7     294.402               6023.17         1.45759               0              0
        8     294.829               6022.94         1.70528               0              0
        9     295.255               6022.71         1.91216               0              0
       10     295.682               6022.48         2.07392               0              0
       11     296.108               6022.25         2.18733               0              0
       12     296.535               6022.03         2.25021               0              0
       13     296.961               6021.81         2.26142               0              0
       14     297.388               6021.59         2.22102               0              0
       15     297.814               6021.37         2.13166               0              0
       16     298.241               6021.16         1.99748               0              0
       17     298.667               6020.94         1.82351               0              0
       18     299.094               6020.73         1.61581               0              0
       19      299.52               6020.52         1.38139               0              0
       20     299.947               6020.31         1.12823               0              0
       21     300.373               6020.11        0.865294               0              0
       22       300.8                6019.9         0.60248               0              0
       23     301.226                6019.7        0.356824               0              0

                                                                     Project
                                                                                                                                   Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                     Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                                     Drawn By                                              Scale            Company
                                                                                                   JKC                                                              G2
                                                                     Date                                                                   File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                A-A' upslope stability.slim
      24        301.653     6019.5    0.158736      0          0
      25        302.079     6019.3   0.0263129      0          0
      26        302.505     6019.1          0       0          0



List Of Coordinates

Water Table

            X           Y
       1.60415 5968.62
       513.246 5968.62


External Boundary

            X       Y
       1.60415 5900
       445.376 5900
       513.246 5900
       513.246 5976
       502.287 5974
       498.945 5974
           479.41 5976
       471.888 5978
       466.281 5980
       459.281 5982
       452.637 5984
       446.461 5986
       438.912 5988
       433.366 5990
           428.19 5992
       422.828 5994
       418.135 5996
       409.229 5998
       402.248 6000
       397.593 6002
       388.863 6004
       379.723 6006
       363.698 6008
       360.261 6010
       346.925 6012
       327.399 6014
       307.856 6016
           304.47 6018
       300.911 6020
       297.149 6022
       293.288 6024
       288.418 6026
       274.197 6028
       261.525 6030
       248.946 6032
       234.291 6034
       224.099 6036
       217.141 6038
       208.706 6040
       202.471 6042
       197.769 6044
       193.429 6046
       189.075 6048
       184.774 6050
       181.197 6052
            177.1 6054
       172.616 6056
       168.085 6058
       164.144 6060
           159.61 6062
       154.835 6064
       150.338 6066
       143.192 6068
       132.885 6070
       123.564 6072
       113.812 6074
       106.804 6076
           103.42 6078
       89.8716 6080
           85.293 6082
       77.3063 6084
       69.4285 6086
       61.6776 6088
       1.60415 6090




                                                 Project
                                                                                                    Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                 Analysis Description
                                                                                                      Slope Stability
                                                 Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                                          JKC                                                        G2
                                                 Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                        12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' upslope stability.slim
Material Boundary

         X      Y
       202.471 6042
       445.376 5900




                       Project
                                                                          Lot #27 Oak Vista
                       Analysis Description
                                                                            Slope Stability
                       Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                JKC                                                        G2
                       Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                              12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' upslope stability.slim
       Safety Factor
              0.0
                       0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.25
                       1.0
                       1.5
6400




                                                                                                                                       1.0
                       2.0
                       2.5
                       3.0
                       3.5
                       4.0
                       4.5
6300




                       5.0
                       5.5
                       6.0+
6200




                                                                                                                         Unit Weight                   Cohesion Phi
                                                                                            Material Name        Color                 Strength Type                  Water Surface Hu Type Hu
                                                                                                                          (lbs/ 3)                       (psf)  (deg)
6100




                                                                                  Indurated Block and Ash Rock              125        Mohr-Coulomb      250      36       Water Surface Custom   1

                                                                                             Ash Deposits                   120        Mohr-Coulomb       0       16       Water Surface Custom   1
6000




                                                                                        W
5900




       -150                  -100   -50   0   50   100               150    200    250              300          350          400            450         500            550           600             650     700            750          800   850      900
                                                     Project
                                                                                                                                                       Lot #27 Oak Vista                                            Run 4 - Existing Slope Unconstrained - Seismic
                                                     Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                          Slope Stability
                                                     Drawn By                                                                Scale                               Company
                                                                                  JKC                                                        1:817                                                                      G2
                                                     Date                                                                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                            12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                                         A-A' upslope stability.slim
                                                                                                      Slide Analysis Information
                                                                                                          Lot #27 Oak Vista

Project Summary

File Name: A-A' upslope stability
Slide Modeler Version: 6.039
Project Title: Lot #27 Oak Vista
Analysis: Slope Stability
Author : JKC
Company : G2
Date Created: 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM


General Settings

Units of Measurement: Imperial Units
Time Units: days
Permeability Units: feet/second
Failure Direction: Left to Right
Data Output : Standard
Maximum Material Properties: 20
Maximum Support Properties: 20


Analysis Options

Analysis Methods Used

         Bishop simplified
         Janbu simplified

Number of slices: 25
Tolerance: 0.005
Maximum number of iterations: 50
Check malpha < 0.2: Yes
Initial trial value of FS: 1
Steffensen Iteration: Yes


Groundwater Analysis

Groundwater Method: Water Surfaces
Pore Fluid Unit Weight: 62.4 lbs/ft3
Advanced Groundwater Method: None


Random Numbers

Pseudo-random Seed: 10116
Random Number Generation Method: Park and Miller v.3


Surface Options

Surface Type: Circular
Search Method: Grid Search
Radius Increment: 1
Composite Surfaces: Disabled
Reverse Curvature: Create Tension Crack
Minimum Elevation : Not Defined
Minimum Depth: Not Defined


Loading

Seismic Load Coefficient (Horizontal): 0.25


Material Properties

         Property        Indurated Block and Ash Rock   Ash Deposits
 Color                                           ___             ___
 Strength Type                         Mohr-Coulomb     Mohr-Coulomb
 Unit Weight [lbs/ft3]                           125             120
 Cohesion [psf]                                  250                   0
 Friction Angle [deg]                             36               16
 Water Surface                            Water Table     Water Table
 Hu Value                                          1                   1



Global Minimums

Method: bishop simplified
         FS: 0.327011

                                                                       Project
                                                                                                                            Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                       Analysis Description
                                                                                                                              Slope Stability
                                                                       Drawn By                                     Scale            Company
                                                                                                JKC                                                          G2
                                                                       Date                                                          File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                              12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                            A-A' upslope stability.slim
       Center: 359.433, 6142.774
       Radius : 136.144
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 291.844, 6024.593
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 302.505, 6019.104
       Resisting Moment=7946.08 lb-ft
       Driving Moment=24299.1 lb-ft
       Total Slice Area=2.18298 ft2


Method: janbu simplified
       FS: 0.325605
       Center: 359.433, 6142.774
       Radius : 136.144
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 291.844, 6024.593
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 302.505, 6019.104
       Resisting Horizontal Force=51.707 lb
       Driving Horizontal Force=158.803 lb
       Total Slice Area=2.18298 ft2


Valid / Invalid Surfaces

Method: bishop simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 830
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 52


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 30 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 16 surfaces
              Error Code -106 reported for 6 surfaces


Method: janbu simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 830
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 52


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 30 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 16 surfaces
              Error Code -106 reported for 6 surfaces


       Error Codes

              The following errors were encountered during the computation:

              -101 = Only one (or zero) surface / slope intersections.
              -103 = Two surface / slope intersections, but one or more surface / nonslope external polygon intersections lie between them. This usually occurs when the slip surface extends past the bottom of the soil region, but may also occur on a benched slope model with two
              sets of Slope Limits.
              -106 = Average slice width is less than 0.0001 * (maximum horizontal extent of soil region). This limitation is imposed to avoid numerical errors which may result from too many slices, or too small a slip region.


Slice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.327011
                                                 Base             Base        Shear      Shear        Base           Pore       Effective
  Slice     Width     Weight       Base
                                               Cohesion      Friction Angle   Stress    Strength   Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
 Number      [ft]      [lbs]      Material
                                                 [psf]          [degrees]      [psf]      [psf]        [psf]         [psf]        [psf]
        1 0.426478 1.73371 Ash Deposits                  0               16 2.38502 0.779929             2.71994          0         2.71994
        2 0.426478 5.14919 Ash Deposits                  0               16 7.10325      2.32284         8.10072          0         8.10072
        3 0.426478 8.46111 Ash Deposits                  0               16 11.7043      3.82742         13.3478          0         13.3478
        4 0.426478     11.231 Ash Deposits               0               16 15.5787       5.0944         17.7663          0         17.7663
        5 0.426478 12.1711 Ash Deposits                  0               16    16.929    5.53598         19.3063          0         19.3063
        6 0.426478 12.8333 Ash Deposits                  0               16    17.899    5.85318         20.4125          0         20.4125
        7 0.426478 13.3944 Ash Deposits                  0               16 18.7326      6.12577         21.3631          0         21.3631
        8 0.426478     13.855 Ash Deposits               0               16 19.4294      6.35364         22.1577          0         22.1577
        9 0.426478 14.2156 Ash Deposits                  0               16 19.9892      6.53669         22.7962          0         22.7962
       10 0.426478 14.4768 Ash Deposits                  0               16 20.4116      6.67481         23.2779          0         23.2779
       11 0.426478 14.6392 Ash Deposits                  0               16 20.6962      6.76788         23.6025          0         23.6025
       12 0.426478 14.7033 Ash Deposits                  0               16 20.8427      6.81579         23.7694          0         23.7694
       13 0.426478 14.6232 Ash Deposits                  0               16 20.7847      6.79682         23.7034          0         23.7034
       14 0.426478 14.2237 Ash Deposits                  0               16 20.2709      6.62881         23.1174          0         23.1174
       15 0.426478 13.6985 Ash Deposits                  0               16 19.5745      6.40109         22.3232          0         22.3232
       16 0.426478 13.0772 Ash Deposits                  0               16 18.7364      6.12701         21.3675          0         21.3675
       17 0.426478 12.3602 Ash Deposits                  0               16 17.7561      5.80644         20.2495          0         20.2495
       18 0.426478 11.5481 Ash Deposits                  0               16 16.6333      5.43927          18.969          0          18.969
       19 0.426478 10.6413 Ash Deposits                  0               16 15.3676      5.02537         17.5256          0         17.5256
       20 0.426478 9.64024 Ash Deposits                  0               16 13.9586      4.56463         15.9187          0         15.9187
       21 0.426478 8.54552 Ash Deposits                  0               16    12.406    4.05691         14.1481          0         14.1481
       22 0.426478 7.17678 Ash Deposits                  0               16 10.4462      3.41603         11.9131          0         11.9131
       23 0.426478 5.25447 Ash Deposits                  0               16 7.66818      2.50758         8.74497          0         8.74497
       24 0.426478 3.21697 Ash Deposits                  0               16 4.70697      1.53923         5.36794          0         5.36794
       25 0.426478     1.0876 Ash Deposits               0               16 1.59548 0.521741             1.81953          0         1.81953

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.325605
                                                 Base             Base        Shear      Shear        Base           Pore       Effective
  Slice     Width     Weight       Base
                                               Cohesion      Friction Angle   Stress    Strength   Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
 Number      [ft]      [lbs]      Material
                                                 [psf]          [degrees]      [psf]      [psf]        [psf]         [psf]        [psf]

                                                                        Project
                                                                                                                                                            Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                        Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                                  Slope Stability
                                                                        Drawn By                                                              Scale                             Company
                                                                                                        JKC                                                                                                                        G2
                                                                        Date                                                                                                    File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                   12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                                  A-A' upslope stability.slim
        1 0.426478 1.73371 Ash Deposits               0              16 2.38948 0.778028            2.7133   0    2.7133
        2 0.426478 5.14919 Ash Deposits               0              16 7.11663        2.31721     8.08108   0   8.08108
        3 0.426478 8.46111 Ash Deposits               0              16 11.7265         3.8182     13.3156   0   13.3156
        4 0.426478      11.231 Ash Deposits           0              16 15.6085        5.08219     17.7237   0   17.7237
        5 0.426478 12.1711 Ash Deposits               0              16 16.9616        5.52279     19.2603   0   19.2603
        6 0.426478 12.8333 Ash Deposits               0              16 17.9337        5.83931     20.3641   0   20.3641
        7 0.426478 13.3944 Ash Deposits               0              16 18.7692        6.11134     21.3127   0   21.3127
        8 0.426478      13.855 Ash Deposits           0              16 19.4676        6.33876     22.1059   0   22.1059
        9 0.426478 14.2156 Ash Deposits               0              16 20.0288        6.52147      22.743   0    22.743
       10 0.426478 14.4768 Ash Deposits               0              16 20.4523        6.65936     23.2239   0   23.2239
       11 0.426478 14.6392 Ash Deposits               0              16 20.7377         6.7523     23.5481   0   23.5481
       12 0.426478 14.7033 Ash Deposits               0              16 20.8848         6.8002     23.7151   0   23.7151
       13 0.426478 14.6232 Ash Deposits               0              16       20.827   6.78137     23.6494   0   23.6494
       14 0.426478 14.2237 Ash Deposits               0              16 20.3124        6.61383     23.0652   0   23.0652
       15 0.426478 13.6985 Ash Deposits               0              16 19.6149        6.38671      22.273   0    22.273
       16 0.426478 13.0772 Ash Deposits               0              16 18.7753        6.11332     21.3197   0   21.3197
       17 0.426478 12.3602 Ash Deposits               0              16 17.7932        5.79355     20.2045   0   20.2045
       18 0.426478 11.5481 Ash Deposits               0              16 16.6683        5.42727     18.9271   0   18.9271
       19 0.426478 10.6413 Ash Deposits               0              16 15.4001        5.01435     17.4871   0   17.4871
       20 0.426478 9.64024 Ash Deposits               0              16 13.9884        4.55468     15.8841   0   15.8841
       21 0.426478 8.54552 Ash Deposits               0              16 12.4326        4.04812     14.1175   0   14.1175
       22 0.426478 7.17678 Ash Deposits               0              16 10.4688        3.40868     11.8875   0   11.8875
       23 0.426478 5.25447 Ash Deposits               0              16 7.68483        2.50222     8.72628   0   8.72628
       24 0.426478 3.21697 Ash Deposits               0              16 4.71725        1.53596     5.35655   0   5.35655
       25 0.426478      1.0876 Ash Deposits           0              16 1.59899 0.520639           1.81568   0   1.81568



Interslice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.327011
             X                   Y             Interslice      Interslice       Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate      coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force    Shear Force      Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                [ft]              [lbs]           [lbs]         [degrees]
        1     291.844               6024.59               0               0              0
        2      292.27               6024.35        0.086702               0              0
        3     292.696               6024.11        0.324911               0              0
        4     293.123               6023.87        0.684639               0              0
        5     293.549               6023.63         1.12008               0              0
        6     293.976                6023.4         1.54643               0              0
        7     294.402               6023.17         1.94797               0              0
        8     294.829               6022.94         2.31698               0              0
        9     295.255               6022.71         2.64689               0              0
       10     295.682               6022.48         2.93227               0              0
       11     296.108               6022.25         3.16881               0              0
       12     296.535               6022.03         3.35333               0              0
       13     296.961               6021.81         3.48375               0              0
       14     297.388               6021.59         3.55885               0              0
       15     297.814               6021.37          3.5788               0              0
       16     298.241               6021.16         3.54687               0              0
       17     298.667               6020.94         3.46757               0              0
       18     299.094               6020.73         3.34647               0              0
       19      299.52               6020.52         3.19021               0              0
       20     299.947               6020.31         3.00648               0              0
       21     300.373               6020.11         2.80403               0              0
       22       300.8                6019.9         2.59265               0              0
       23     301.226                6019.7         2.38831               0              0
       24     301.653                6019.5         2.21906               0              0
       25     302.079                6019.3         2.10341               0              0
       26     302.505                6019.1               0               0              0

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.325605
             X                   Y             Interslice      Interslice       Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate      coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force    Shear Force      Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                [ft]              [lbs]           [lbs]         [degrees]
        1     291.844               6024.59               0               0              0
        2      292.27               6024.35      0.0801267                0              0
        3     292.696               6024.11        0.298778               0              0
        4     293.123               6023.87        0.626322               0              0
        5     293.549               6023.63         1.01898               0              0
        6     293.976                6023.4         1.39889               0              0
        7     294.402               6023.17         1.75138               0              0
        8     294.829               6022.94         2.06913               0              0
        9     295.255               6022.71         2.34592               0              0
       10     295.682               6022.48         2.57671               0              0
       11     296.108               6022.25         2.75757               0              0
       12     296.535               6022.03         2.88569               0              0
       13     296.961               6021.81         2.95936               0              0
       14     297.388               6021.59         2.97793               0              0
       15     297.814               6021.37          2.9428               0              0
       16     298.241               6021.16         2.85772               0              0
       17     298.667               6020.94         2.72759               0              0
       18     299.094               6020.73         2.55837               0              0

                                                                     Project
                                                                                                                                   Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                     Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                                     Drawn By                                              Scale            Company
                                                                                                   JKC                                                              G2
                                                                     Date                                                                   File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                A-A' upslope stability.slim
      19         299.52     6020.52   2.35706      0          0
      20        299.947     6020.31   2.13174      0          0
      21        300.373     6020.11   1.89154      0          0
      22          300.8      6019.9   1.64663      0          0
      23        301.226      6019.7   1.41408      0          0
      24        301.653      6019.5   1.22414      0          0
      25        302.079      6019.3    1.0958      0          0
      26        302.505      6019.1        0       0          0



List Of Coordinates

Water Table

            X           Y
       1.60415 5968.62
       513.246 5968.62


External Boundary

            X       Y
       1.60415 5900
       445.376 5900
       513.246 5900
       513.246 5976
       502.287 5974
       498.945 5974
           479.41 5976
       471.888 5978
       466.281 5980
       459.281 5982
       452.637 5984
       446.461 5986
       438.912 5988
       433.366 5990
           428.19 5992
       422.828 5994
       418.135 5996
       409.229 5998
       402.248 6000
       397.593 6002
       388.863 6004
       379.723 6006
       363.698 6008
       360.261 6010
       346.925 6012
       327.399 6014
       307.856 6016
           304.47 6018
       300.911 6020
       297.149 6022
       293.288 6024
       288.418 6026
       274.197 6028
       261.525 6030
       248.946 6032
       234.291 6034
       224.099 6036
       217.141 6038
       208.706 6040
       202.471 6042
       197.769 6044
       193.429 6046
       189.075 6048
       184.774 6050
       181.197 6052
            177.1 6054
       172.616 6056
       168.085 6058
       164.144 6060
           159.61 6062
       154.835 6064
       150.338 6066
       143.192 6068
       132.885 6070
       123.564 6072
       113.812 6074
       106.804 6076
           103.42 6078
       89.8716 6080
           85.293 6082


                                                Project
                                                                                                   Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                Analysis Description
                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                                         JKC                                                        G2
                                                Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                       12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' upslope stability.slim
       77.3063 6084
       69.4285 6086
       61.6776 6088
       1.60415 6090


Material Boundary

         X      Y
       202.471 6042
       445.376 5900




                       Project
                                                                          Lot #27 Oak Vista
                       Analysis Description
                                                                            Slope Stability
                       Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                JKC                                                        G2
                       Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                              12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' upslope stability.slim
       Safety Factor
              0.00
              0.25
                                                                                                                                                                        1.37
              0.50
6300




              0.75
              1.00
              1.25
              1.50
              1.75
              2.00
              2.25
              2.50
              2.75
6200




              3.00
              3.25
              3.50
              3.75
              4.00
              4.25
              4.50
              4.75
6100




              5.00
              5.25
              5.50
              5.75
              6.00+



                                                                  Unit Weight               Cohesion Phi
                                 Material Name            Color               Strength Type               Water Surface
                                                                   (lbs/ 3)                   (psf) (deg)
6000




                           Indurated Block and Ash Rock              125     Mohr-Coulomb     250     36   Water Surface
                                   Shear Zone                        120     Mohr-Coulomb      0      16   Water Surface
                                                                                                                           W
                                  Ash Deposits                       120     Mohr-Coulomb     100     19   Water Surface
5900




           -100        0                                          100                                      200                         300                        400                500                  600
                                                 Project
                                                                                                                                                Lot #27 Oak Vista         Run 5 - Existing Slope - Translational - Static
                                                 Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                 Drawn By                                                                      Scale                        Company
                                                                                            JKC                                              1:944                                         G2
                                                 Date                                                                                                       File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                            12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                A-A' shear zone.slim
                                                                                             Slide Analysis Information
                                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista

Project Summary

File Name: A-A' shear zone
Slide Modeler Version: 6.039
Project Title: Lot #27 Oak Vista
Analysis: Slope Stability
Author: JKC
Company: G2
Date Created: 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM


General Settings

Units of Measurement: Imperial Units
Time Units: days
Permeability Units: feet/second
Failure Direction: Left to Right
Data Output: Standard
Maximum Material Properties: 20
Maximum Support Properties: 20


Analysis Options

Analysis Methods Used

          Bishop simplified
          Janbu simplified

Number of slices: 25
Tolerance: 0.005
Maximum number of iterations: 50
Check malpha < 0.2: Yes
Initial trial value of FS: 1
Steffensen Iteration: Yes


Groundwater Analysis

Groundwater Method: Water Surfaces
Pore Fluid Unit Weight: 62.4 lbs/ft3
Advanced Groundwater Method: None


Random Numbers

Pseudo-random Seed: 10116
Random Number Generation Method: Park and Miller v.3


Surface Options

Material Properties

          Property        Indurated Block and Ash Rock   Shear Zone       Ash Deposits
  Color                                           ___               ___            ___

  Strength Type                        Mohr-Coulomb Mohr-Coulomb Mohr-Coulomb
  Unit Weight [lbs/ft3]                           125               120            120
  Cohesion [psf]                                  250                 0            100
  Friction Angle [deg]                             36                16              19
  Water Surface                           Water Table     Water Table       Water Table
  Hu Value                                          1                 1                  1



Global Minimums

Method: bishop simplified
                                                          Project
                                                                                                                  Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                          Analysis Description
                                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                          Drawn By                                        Scale             Company
                                                                                     JKC                                                        G2
                                                          Date                                                              File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                A-A' shear zone.slim
       FS: 1.370860
       Axis Location: 423.766, 6319.422
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint: 202.491, 6041.994
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint: 512.943, 5975.945
       Resisting Moment=1.40796e+008 lb-ft
       Driving Moment=1.02706e+008 lb-ft
       Total Slice Area=11964.6 ft2


Method: janbu simplified
       FS: 1.294540
       Axis Location: 423.766, 6319.422
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint: 202.491, 6041.994
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint: 512.943, 5975.945
       Resisting Horizontal Force=350126 lb
       Driving Horizontal Force=270465 lb
       Total Slice Area=11964.6 ft2


Global Minimum Coordinates

Method: bishop simplified
           X           Y
        202.491 6041.99
        301.284     5984.3
        406.264 5925.22
         465.54 5937.24
        512.943 5975.94


Method: janbu simplified
           X           Y
        202.491 6041.99
        301.284     5984.3
        406.264 5925.22
         465.54 5937.24
        512.943 5975.94



Valid / Invalid Surfaces

Method: bishop simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 2
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 0


Method: janbu simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 2
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 0


Slice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 1.37086
                                                  Base           Base        Shear      Shear      Base         Pore        Effective
   Slice Width         Weight       Base
                                                Cohesion    Friction Angle   Stress    Strength Normal Stress Pressure    Normal Stress
  Number  [ft]          [lbs]      Material
                                                  [psf]        [degrees]      [psf]      [psf]      [psf]       [psf]          [psf]
        1 12.3492 2597.59          Shear Zone           0               16 39.2086     53.7495        187.447        0          187.447
        2 12.3492 8499.42          Shear Zone           0               16 128.292     175.871        613.334        0          613.334
        3 12.3492 15241.5          Shear Zone           0               16 230.059     315.378        1099.85        0          1099.85
        4 12.3492          23239   Shear Zone           0               16 350.775     480.864        1676.97        0          1676.97
        5 12.3492 31137.2          Shear Zone           0               16 469.993     644.294        2246.92        0          2246.92
        6 12.3492 38935.9          Shear Zone           0               16 587.708     805.666        2809.69        0          2809.69
        7 12.3492 46943.2          Shear Zone           0               16 708.571     971.352        3387.51        0          3387.51
        8 12.3492          51958   Shear Zone           0               16 784.267     1075.12        3749.39        0          3749.39
        9 13.1225 56987.3          Shear Zone           0               16 812.702      1114.1        3885.34        0          3885.34
       10 13.1225          65254   Shear Zone           0               16 930.598     1275.72        4448.96        0          4448.96
       11 13.1225 74767.9          Shear Zone           0               16 1033.77     1417.15         5115.9   173.719         4942.18
       12 13.1225          84147   Shear Zone           0               16 1081.28     1482.28        5803.89   634.558         5169.34
       13 13.1225 91929.5          Shear Zone           0               16 1106.03     1516.21        6383.04   1095.4          5287.64
       14 13.1225          99369   Shear Zone           0               16 1125.88     1543.42         6938.8   1556.24         5382.56
                                                            Project
                                                                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                            Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                      Slope Stability
                                                            Drawn By                                                 Scale                   Company
                                                                                        JKC                                                                      G2
                                                            Date                                                                             File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                      12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                            A-A' shear zone.slim
       15 13.1225 107394        Shear Zone            0               16 1154.08       1582.08        7534.44   2017.07         5517.37
       16 13.1225 113571        Shear Zone            0               16 1155.94       1584.63        8004.16   2477.91         5526.25
       17 11.8552 100921 Ash Deposits               100               19 1632.95       2238.55        8844.07   2633.3          6210.77
       18 11.8552 92144.9 Ash Deposits              100               19 1476.74        2024.4        8072.09   2483.23         5588.86
       19 11.8552 82377.2 Ash Deposits              100               19   1298.4      1779.92          7212    2333.16         4878.84
       20 11.8552       73828 Ash Deposits          100               19 1147.26       1572.73         6460.2   2183.09         4277.11
       21 11.8552 65281.8 Ash Deposits              100               19 996.185       1365.63        5708.68   2033.02         3675.66
       22 11.8509 51461.9 Ash Deposits              100               19 940.607       1289.44        5110.46   1656.08         3454.38
       23 11.8509 33951.3 Ash Deposits              100               19 664.506       910.945        3407.45   1052.29         2355.16
       24 11.8509 18453.6 Ash Deposits              100               19   442.08       606.03        1918.11   448.495         1469.62
       25 11.8509 5358.13 Ash Deposits              100               19   234.63      321.645        643.705        0          643.705

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 1.29454
                                                 Base          Base        Shear        Shear      Base         Pore        Effective
   Slice Width         Weight    Base
                                               Cohesion   Friction Angle   Stress      Strength Normal Stress Pressure    Normal Stress
  Number  [ft]          [lbs]   Material
                                                 [psf]       [degrees]      [psf]        [psf]      [psf]       [psf]          [psf]
        1 12.3492 2597.59       Shear Zone            0               16 41.2553       53.4067        186.251        0          186.251
        2 12.3492 8499.42       Shear Zone            0               16 134.989       174.749        609.423        0          609.423
        3 12.3492 15241.5       Shear Zone            0               16 242.068       313.367        1092.84        0          1092.84
        4 12.3492       23239   Shear Zone            0               16 369.086       477.797        1666.28        0          1666.28
        5 12.3492 31137.2       Shear Zone            0               16 494.527       640.185        2232.59        0          2232.59
        6 12.3492 38935.9       Shear Zone            0               16 618.388       800.528        2791.77        0          2791.77
        7 12.3492 46943.2       Shear Zone            0               16   745.56      965.157         3365.9        0           3365.9
        8 12.3492       51958   Shear Zone            0               16 825.204       1068.26        3725.48        0          3725.48
        9 13.1225 56987.3       Shear Zone            0               16 855.308       1107.23        3861.36        0          3861.36
       10 13.1225       65254   Shear Zone            0               16 979.383       1267.85        4421.51        0          4421.51
       11 13.1225 74767.9       Shear Zone            0               16 1087.95        1408.4         5085.4   173.719         4911.68
       12 13.1225       84147   Shear Zone            0               16 1137.96       1473.14          5772    634.558         5137.44
       13 13.1225 91929.5       Shear Zone            0               16       1164    1506.85        6350.41   1095.4          5255.01
       14 13.1225       99369   Shear Zone            0               16   1184.9       1533.9         6905.6   1556.24         5349.36
       15 13.1225 107394        Shear Zone            0               16 1214.58       1572.32        7500.37   2017.07          5483.3
       16 13.1225 113571        Shear Zone            0               16 1216.53       1574.85        7970.09   2477.91         5492.18
       17 11.8552 100921 Ash Deposits               100               19 1734.72       2245.66        8864.73   2633.3          6231.43
       18 11.8552 92144.9 Ash Deposits              100               19 1568.77       2030.83        8090.76   2483.23         5607.53
       19 11.8552 82377.2 Ash Deposits              100               19 1379.31       1785.57        7228.41   2333.16         4895.25
       20 11.8552       73828 Ash Deposits          100               19 1218.75       1577.72        6474.71   2183.09         4291.62
       21 11.8552 65281.8 Ash Deposits              100               19 1058.27       1369.97        5721.27   2033.02         3688.25
       22 11.8509 51461.9 Ash Deposits              100               19 1011.44       1309.35        5168.31   1656.08         3512.23
       23 11.8509 33951.3 Ash Deposits              100               19 714.551       925.015         3448.3   1052.29         2396.01
       24 11.8509 18453.6 Ash Deposits              100               19 475.374       615.391         1945.3   448.495          1496.8
       25 11.8509 5358.13 Ash Deposits              100               19       252.3   326.613         658.13        0           658.13



Interslice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 1.37086
              X                   Y              Interslice       Interslice     Interslice
   Slice
         coordinate      coordinate - Bottom    Normal Force     Shear Force    Force Angle
  Number
             [ft]                [ft]               [lbs]            [lbs]       [degrees]
        1     202.491                6041.99                 0             0               0
        2      214.84                6034.78          867.693              0               0
        3     227.189                6027.57          3706.82              0               0
        4     239.538                6020.36          8798.06              0               0
        5     251.887                6013.15          16560.8              0               0
        6     264.236                6005.93          26961.8              0               0
        7     276.585                5998.72          39967.9              0               0
        8     288.935                5991.51          55648.7              0               0
        9     301.284                 5984.3          73004.7              0               0
       10     314.406                5976.91          91034.1              0               0
       11     327.529                5969.53          111679               0               0
       12     340.651                5962.14          135896               0               0
       13     353.774                5954.76          164570               0               0
       14     366.896                5947.37          197196               0               0
       15     380.019                5939.99          233666               0               0
       16     393.141                 5932.6          274166               0               0
       17     406.264                5925.22          318110               0               0
       18     418.119                5927.62          277481               0               0
       19     429.974                5930.03          240561               0               0


                                                          Project
                                                                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                          Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                      Slope Stability
                                                          Drawn By                                                   Scale                   Company
                                                                                        JKC                                                                      G2
                                                          Date                                                                               File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                    12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                              A-A' shear zone.slim
       20        441.829               5932.43        207823               0             0
       21        453.685               5934.83        178685               0             0
       22        465.54                5937.24        153146               0             0
       23        477.391               5946.92        92549.4              0             0
       24        489.241               5956.59        51703.4              0             0
       25        501.092               5966.27        27904.3              0             0
       26        512.943               5975.94              0              0             0

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 1.29454
              X                     Y             Interslice      Interslice    Interslice
   Slice
         coordinate        coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force    Shear Force   Force Angle
  Number
             [ft]                  [ft]              [lbs]           [lbs]      [degrees]
        1        202.491               6041.99              0              0             0
        2        214.84                6034.78        833.794              0             0
        3        227.189               6027.57        3562.01              0             0
        4        239.538               6020.36        8454.34              0             0
        5        251.887               6013.15        15913.8              0             0
        6        264.236               6005.93        25908.5              0             0
        7        276.585               5998.72        38406.4              0             0
        8        288.935               5991.51        53474.6              0             0
        9        301.284                5984.3        70152.6              0             0
       10        314.406               5976.91        87445.9              0             0
       11        327.529               5969.53        107248               0             0
       12        340.651               5962.14        130528               0             0
       13        353.774               5954.76        158223               0             0
       14        366.896               5947.37        189847               0             0
       15        380.019               5939.99        225298               0             0
       16        393.141                5932.6        264752               0             0
       17        406.264               5925.22        307648               0             0
       18        418.119               5927.62        265764               0             0
       19        429.974               5930.03        227707               0             0
       20        441.829               5932.43        193971               0             0
       21        453.685               5934.83        163951               0             0
       22        465.54                5937.24        137645               0             0
       23        477.391               5946.92        75649.5              0             0
       24        489.241               5956.59        33814.9              0             0
       25        501.092               5966.27        9358.21              0             0
       26        512.943               5975.94              0              0             0



List Of Coordinates

Water Table
             X         Y
        1.60415 5968.62
        513.246 5968.62


External Boundary
             X         Y
        1.60415        5900
        445.376        5900
        449.534        5900
        513.246        5900
        513.246        5976
        502.287        5974
        498.945        5974
            479.41     5976
        471.888        5978
        466.281        5980
        459.281        5982
        452.637        5984
        446.461        5986
        438.912        5988
        433.366        5990
            428.19     5992
        422.828        5994
        418.135        5996
                                                          Project
                                                                                                              Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                          Analysis Description
                                                                                                                Slope Stability
                                                          Drawn By                                    Scale            Company
                                                                                     JKC                                                   G2
                                                          Date                                                         File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                  12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' shear zone.slim
        409.229        5998
        402.248        6000
        397.593        6002
        388.863        6004
        379.723        6006
        363.698        6008
        360.261        6010
        346.925        6012
        327.399        6014
        307.856        6016
         304.47        6018
        300.911        6020
        297.149        6022
        293.288        6024
        288.418        6026
        274.197        6028
        261.525        6030
        248.946        6032
        234.291        6034
        224.099        6036
        217.141        6038
        209.728 6039.76
        208.706        6040
        202.471        6042
        197.769        6044
        193.429        6046
        189.075        6048
        184.774        6050
        181.197        6052
          177.1        6054
        172.616        6056
        168.085        6058
        164.144        6060
         159.61        6062
        154.835        6064
        150.338        6066
        143.192        6068
        132.885        6070
        123.564        6072
        113.812        6074
        106.804        6076
         103.42        6078
        89.8716        6080
         85.293        6082
        77.3063        6084
        69.4285        6086
        61.6776        6088
        1.60415        6090


Material Boundary
           X       Y
        202.471 6042
        445.376 5900


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        209.728 6039.76
        449.534        5900




                              Project
                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista
                              Analysis Description
                                                                                   Slope Stability
                              Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                       JKC                                                    G2
                              Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                     12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' shear zone.slim
       Safety Factor
              0.00
              0.25                                                                                                                                                     0.67
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.25
6300




              0.50
              0.75
              1.00
              1.25
              1.50
              1.75
              2.00
              2.25
              2.50
6200




              2.75
              3.00
              3.25
              3.50
              3.75
              4.00
              4.25
              4.50
              4.75
6100




              5.00
              5.25
              5.50
              5.75
              6.00+


                                                                   Unit Weight               Cohesion Phi
                                 Material Name             Color               Strength Type               Water Surface
                                                                    (lbs/ 3)                   (psf) (deg)
6000




                           Indurated Block and Ash Rock               125     Mohr-Coulomb     250     36   Water Surface
                                   Shear Zone                         120     Mohr-Coulomb      0      16   Water Surface
                                                                                                                            W
                                  Ash Deposits                        120     Mohr-Coulomb     100     19   Water Surface
5900




             -100      0                                           100                                      200                         300                      400             500                 600
                                                 Project
                                                                                                                                              Lot #27 Oak Vista Run 6 - Existing Slope - Translational - Seismic
                                                 Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                  Slope Stability
                                                 Drawn By                                                                       Scale                    Company
                                                                                           JKC                                            1:943                                        G2
                                                 Date                                                                                                    File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                           12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                            A-A' shear zone.slim
                                                                                             Slide Analysis Information
                                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista

Project Summary

File Name: A-A' shear zone
Slide Modeler Version: 6.039
Project Title: Lot #27 Oak Vista
Analysis: Slope Stability
Author: JKC
Company: G2
Date Created: 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM


General Settings

Units of Measurement: Imperial Units
Time Units: days
Permeability Units: feet/second
Failure Direction: Left to Right
Data Output: Standard
Maximum Material Properties: 20
Maximum Support Properties: 20


Analysis Options

Analysis Methods Used

          Bishop simplified
          Janbu simplified

Number of slices: 25
Tolerance: 0.005
Maximum number of iterations: 50
Check malpha < 0.2: Yes
Initial trial value of FS: 1
Steffensen Iteration: Yes


Groundwater Analysis

Groundwater Method: Water Surfaces
Pore Fluid Unit Weight: 62.4 lbs/ft3
Advanced Groundwater Method: None


Random Numbers

Pseudo-random Seed: 10116
Random Number Generation Method: Park and Miller v.3


Surface Options

Loading

Seismic Load Coefficient (Horizontal): 0.25


Material Properties

          Property        Indurated Block and Ash Rock   Shear Zone       Ash Deposits
  Color                                           ___               ___            ___

  Strength Type                        Mohr-Coulomb Mohr-Coulomb Mohr-Coulomb
  Unit Weight [lbs/ft3]                           125               120            120
  Cohesion [psf]                                  250                 0            100
  Friction Angle [deg]                             36                16              19
  Water Surface                           Water Table     Water Table       Water Table
  Hu Value                                          1                 1                  1

                                                          Project
                                                                                                                  Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                          Analysis Description
                                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                          Drawn By                                        Scale             Company
                                                                                     JKC                                                        G2
                                                          Date                                                              File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                A-A' shear zone.slim
Global Minimums

Method: bishop simplified
       FS: 0.667275
       Axis Location: 423.904, 6319.481
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint: 202.724, 6041.919
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint: 513.246, 5976.000
       Resisting Moment=1.32954e+008 lb-ft
       Driving Moment=1.9925e+008 lb-ft
       Total Slice Area=11202.8 ft2


Method: janbu simplified
       FS: 0.627116
       Axis Location: 423.904, 6319.481
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint: 202.724, 6041.919
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint: 513.246, 5976.000
       Resisting Horizontal Force=336138 lb
       Driving Horizontal Force=536007 lb
       Total Slice Area=11202.8 ft2


Global Minimum Coordinates

Method: bishop simplified
             X          Y
        202.724 6041.92
            287.52 5992.32
        393.114 5932.79
            464.69 5944.23
        513.246         5976


Method: janbu simplified
             X          Y
        202.724 6041.92
            287.52 5992.32
        393.114 5932.79
            464.69 5944.23
        513.246         5976



Valid / Invalid Surfaces

Method: bishop simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 2
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 0


Method: janbu simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 2
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 0


Slice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.667275
                                                   Base          Base        Shear     Shear      Base           Pore       Effective
   Slice      Width     Weight       Base
                                                 Cohesion   Friction Angle   Stress   Strength Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
  Number       [ft]      [lbs]      Material
                                                   [psf]       [degrees]      [psf]     [psf]      [psf]         [psf]         [psf]
        1     12.1137 2514.55       Shear Zone          0               16 71.2843     47.5662       165.883          0         165.883
        2     12.1137 8213.49       Shear Zone          0               16 232.843     155.37         541.84          0          541.84
        3     12.1137 14686.5       Shear Zone          0               16 416.343     277.815       968.855          0         968.855
        4     12.1137 22383.4       Shear Zone          0               16 634.542     423.414       1476.62          0         1476.62
        5     12.1137 30015.9       Shear Zone          0               16 850.913     567.793       1980.13          0         1980.13
        6     12.1137 37530.7       Shear Zone          0               16 1063.95     709.947       2475.88          0         2475.88
        7     12.1137 45231.5       Shear Zone          0               16 1282.26     855.619        2983.9          0          2983.9
        8     13.1993       55153   Shear Zone          0               16 1445.43     964.496        3363.6          0          3363.6
        9     13.1993 56743.1       Shear Zone          0               16   1487.1    992.304       3460.57          0         3460.57
                                                            Project
                                                                                                                                Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                            Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                            Drawn By                                                 Scale                  Company
                                                                                      JKC                                                                       G2
                                                            Date                                                                            File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                   12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                              A-A' shear zone.slim
       10   13.1993     64922   Shear Zone           0                16 1701.44         1135.33       3959.38          0         3959.38
       11   13.1993     74568   Shear Zone           0                16 1903.67         1270.27       4576.18    146.228         4429.95
       12   13.1993 84089.2     Shear Zone           0                16 1992.57         1329.59       5247.39     610.57         4636.82
       13   13.1993     92035   Shear Zone           0                16 2040.18         1361.36       5822.54    1074.91         4747.63
       14   13.1993 99547.8     Shear Zone           0                16 2076.45         1385.56       6371.27    1539.25         4832.02
       15   13.1993 107703      Shear Zone           0                16 2129.54         1420.99       6959.17     2003.6         4955.57
       16 0.125041 1053.55      Shear Zone           0                16 2856.36         1905.98       8882.12    2235.14         6646.98
       17   14.2901 114648 Ash Deposits            100                19 3458.77         2307.95       8575.59    2163.27         6412.32
       18   14.2901 103667 Ash Deposits            100                19 3106.76         2073.06       7750.93    2020.77         5730.16
       19   14.2901 91182.1 Ash Deposits           100                19 2695.53         1798.66       6811.54    1878.27         4933.27
       20   14.2901 78954.9 Ash Deposits           100                19 2294.47         1531.04       5891.81    1735.77         4156.04
       21   14.2901 67662.7 Ash Deposits           100                19 1930.19         1287.97       5043.39    1593.28         3450.11
       22   12.1391 44121.1 Ash Deposits           100                19 2065.25         1378.09       4986.05    1274.19         3711.86
       23   12.1391 28472.9 Ash Deposits           100                19 1447.12         965.627       3292.49    778.524         2513.97
       24   12.1391 15054.7 Ash Deposits           100                19 972.113         648.667        1876.3    282.855         1593.45
       25   12.1391 4187.31 Ash Deposits           100                19 495.009         330.307       668.859          0         668.859

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.627116
                                                Base          Base            Shear      Shear      Base           Pore       Effective
   Slice    Width      Weight     Base
                                              Cohesion   Friction Angle       Stress    Strength Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
  Number     [ft]       [lbs]    Material
                                                [psf]       [degrees]          [psf]      [psf]      [psf]         [psf]         [psf]
        1   12.1137 2514.55     Shear Zone           0                16       74.886    46.9622       163.776          0         163.776
        2   12.1137 8213.49     Shear Zone           0                16 244.607         153.397       534.958          0         534.958
        3   12.1137 14686.5     Shear Zone           0                16 437.378         274.287       956.556          0         956.556
        4   12.1137 22383.4     Shear Zone           0                16 666.601         418.036       1457.87          0         1457.87
        5   12.1137 30015.9     Shear Zone           0                16 893.905         560.582       1954.98          0         1954.98
        6   12.1137 37530.7     Shear Zone           0                16       1117.7    700.93        2444.44          0         2444.44
        7   12.1137 45231.5     Shear Zone           0                16 1347.04         844.752          2946          0           2946
        8   13.1993     55153   Shear Zone           0                16 1519.02         952.599       3322.11          0         3322.11
        9   13.1993 56743.1     Shear Zone           0                16 1562.81         980.064       3417.89          0         3417.89
       10   13.1993     64922   Shear Zone           0                16 1788.07         1121.33       3910.54          0         3910.54
       11   13.1993     74568   Shear Zone           0                16 2000.59         1254.6        4521.53    146.228          4375.3
       12   13.1993 84089.2     Shear Zone           0                16 2094.01         1313.19        5190.2     610.57         4579.63
       13   13.1993     92035   Shear Zone           0                16 2144.05         1344.57       5763.98    1074.91         4689.07
       14   13.1993 99547.8     Shear Zone           0                16 2182.16         1368.47       6311.67    1539.25         4772.42
       15   13.1993 107703      Shear Zone           0                16 2237.96         1403.46       6898.06     2003.6         4894.46
       16 0.125041 1053.55      Shear Zone           0                16 3053.71         1915.03       8913.63    2235.14         6678.49
       17   14.2901 114648 Ash Deposits            100                19 3701.56         2321.31       8614.43    2163.27         6451.16
       18   14.2901 103667 Ash Deposits            100                19 3324.84         2085.06       7785.83    2020.77         5765.06
       19   14.2901 91182.1 Ash Deposits           100                19 2884.75         1809.07       6841.78    1878.27         4963.51
       20   14.2901 78954.9 Ash Deposits           100                19 2455.53         1539.9        5917.55    1735.77         4181.78
       21   14.2901 67662.7 Ash Deposits           100                19 2065.69         1295.43       5065.05    1593.28         3471.77
       22   12.1391 44121.1 Ash Deposits           100                19 2271.67         1424.6        5121.12    1274.19         3846.93
       23   12.1391 28472.9 Ash Deposits           100                19 1591.76         998.216       3387.13    778.524         2608.61
       24   12.1391 15054.7 Ash Deposits           100                19 1069.27         670.559       1939.88    282.855         1657.02
       25   12.1391 4187.31 Ash Deposits           100                19 544.483         341.454       701.236          0         701.236



Interslice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.667275
              X                  Y             Interslice        Interslice      Interslice
   Slice
         coordinate     coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force      Shear Force     Force Angle
  Number
             [ft]               [ft]              [lbs]             [lbs]        [degrees]
        1     202.724               6041.92                0               0               0
        2     214.838               6034.83         940.514                0               0
        3     226.952               6027.75          4012.6                0               0
        4     239.065               6020.66         9505.76                0               0
        5     251.179               6013.58         17877.8                0               0
        6     263.293               6006.49         29104.6                0               0
        7     275.406                5999.4         43142.2                0               0
        8      287.52               5992.32         60060.1                0               0
        9     300.719               5984.88         79799.6                0               0
       10     313.919               5977.44         100108                 0               0
       11     327.118                  5970         123344                 0               0
       12     340.317               5962.55         150912                 0               0
       13     353.516               5955.11         184682                 0               0
       14     366.716               5947.67         224089                 0               0


                                                         Project
                                                                                                                                  Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                         Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                       Slope Stability
                                                         Drawn By                                                      Scale                  Company
                                                                                        JKC                                                                       G2
                                                         Date                                                                                 File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                   12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                A-A' shear zone.slim
       15        379.915                 5940.23        268980               0             0
       16        393.114                 5932.79        319583               0             0
       17        393.239                 5932.81        319312               0             0
       18        407.529                 5935.09        278964               0             0
       19        421.819                 5937.38        242785               0             0
       20        436.11                  5939.66        211506               0             0
       21            450.4               5941.94        185002               0             0
       22        464.69                  5944.23        162817               0             0
       23        476.829                 5952.17        109171               0             0
       24        488.968                 5960.11        72568.8              0             0
       25        501.107                 5968.06        49627.7              0             0
       26        513.246                   5976               0              0             0

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.627116
              X                       Y             Interslice      Interslice    Interslice
   Slice
         coordinate          coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force    Shear Force   Force Angle
  Number
             [ft]                    [ft]              [lbs]           [lbs]      [degrees]
        1        202.724                 6041.92              0              0             0
        2        214.838                 6034.83        881.958              0             0
        3        226.952                 6027.75        3762.78              0             0
        4        239.065                 6020.66        8913.94              0             0
        5        251.179                 6013.58        16764.7              0             0
        6        263.293                 6006.49        27292.6              0             0
        7        275.406                  5999.4        40456.2              0             0
        8        287.52                  5992.32        56320.8              0             0
        9        300.719                 5984.88        74780.2              0             0
       10        313.919                 5977.44        93771.7              0             0
       11        327.118                   5970         115501               0             0
       12        340.317                 5962.55        141383               0             0
       13        353.516                 5955.11        173388               0             0
       14        366.716                 5947.67        210989               0             0
       15        379.915                 5940.23        254040               0             0
       16        393.114                 5932.79        302758               0             0
       17        393.239                 5932.81        302461               0             0
       18        407.529                 5935.09        258555               0             0
       19        421.819                 5937.38        219180               0             0
       20        436.11                  5939.66        185128               0             0
       21            450.4               5941.94        156263               0             0
       22        464.69                  5944.23        132093               0             0
       23        476.829                 5952.17        74868.2              0             0
       24        488.968                 5960.11        35758.5              0             0
       25        501.107                 5968.06        11132.9              0             0
       26        513.246                   5976               0              0             0



List Of Coordinates

Water Table
             X           Y
        1.60415 5968.62
        513.246 5968.62


External Boundary
             X           Y
        1.60415         5900
        445.376         5900
        449.534         5900
        513.246         5900
        513.246         5976
        502.287         5974
        498.945         5974
            479.41      5976
        471.888         5978
        466.281         5980
        459.281         5982
        452.637         5984
        446.461         5986
                                                            Project
                                                                                                                Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                            Analysis Description
                                                                                                                  Slope Stability
                                                            Drawn By                                    Scale            Company
                                                                                       JKC                                                   G2
                                                            Date                                                         File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                    12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' shear zone.slim
        438.912        5988
        433.366        5990
         428.19        5992
        422.828        5994
        418.135        5996
        409.229        5998
        402.248        6000
        397.593        6002
        388.863        6004
        379.723        6006
        363.698        6008
        360.261        6010
        346.925        6012
        327.399        6014
        307.856        6016
         304.47        6018
        300.911        6020
        297.149        6022
        293.288        6024
        288.418        6026
        274.197        6028
        261.525        6030
        248.946        6032
        234.291        6034
        224.099        6036
        217.141        6038
        209.728 6039.76
        208.706        6040
        202.471        6042
        197.769        6044
        193.429        6046
        189.075        6048
        184.774        6050
        181.197        6052
          177.1        6054
        172.616        6056
        168.085        6058
        164.144        6060
         159.61        6062
        154.835        6064
        150.338        6066
        143.192        6068
        132.885        6070
        123.564        6072
        113.812        6074
        106.804        6076
         103.42        6078
        89.8716        6080
         85.293        6082
        77.3063        6084
        69.4285        6086
        61.6776        6088
        1.60415        6090


Material Boundary
           X       Y
        202.471 6042
        445.376 5900


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        209.728 6039.76
        449.534        5900




                              Project
                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista
                              Analysis Description
                                                                                   Slope Stability
                              Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                       JKC                                                    G2
                              Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                     12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' shear zone.slim
       Safety Factor
              0.00
              0.25                                                       Unit Weight                               Cohesion Phi
                                    Material Name            Color                              Strength Type                         Water Surface    Hu Type Hu Ru
6250




              0.50                                                        (lbs/ 3)                                   (psf)  (deg)
              0.75
              1.00            Indurated Block and Ash Rock                      125             Mohr-Coulomb         250         36   Water Surface    Custom   1
              1.25
              1.50                   Ash Deposits                               120             Mohr-Coulomb          0          19   Water Surface    Custom   1
              1.75
              2.00                   Structural Fill                            120             Mohr-Coulomb         250         36   Water Surface    Custom   1
              2.25
6200




              2.50                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.51
                                  Reinforced Concrete                           150             Inﬁnite strength                          None                         0
              2.75
              3.00
                                     Stacked Rocks                              130             Mohr-Coulomb          0          39   Water Surface    Custom   1
              3.25
              3.50
              3.75
              4.00
              4.25
6150




              4.50
              4.75
              5.00
              5.25
              5.50
              5.75
              6.00+
6100




                                                                                                                                                                       Oiginal Grade

                                                                                                                                                                      500.00 lbs/ft2
6050
6000




                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
5950
5900




               -150    -100                  -50                     0                              50                     100                   150                 200                   250                     300          350      400                 450           500             550
                                                                         Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista                                     Run 7 - Proposed Site Grading - Static1
                                                                         Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                                         Drawn By                                                                                   Scale                                   Company
                                                                                                                          JKC                                                      1:538                                                         G2
                                                                         Date                                                                                                                               File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                                                 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                              A-A' proposed grading.slim
                                                                                      Slide Analysis Information
                                                                                          Lot #27 Oak Vista

Project Summary

File Name: A-A' proposed grading
Slide Modeler Version: 6.039
Project Title: Lot #27 Oak Vista
Analysis: Slope Stability
Author: JKC
Company: G2
Date Created: 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM


General Settings

Units of Measurement: Imperial Units
Time Units: days
Permeability Units: feet/second
Failure Direction: Left to Right
Data Output: Standard
Maximum Material Properties: 20
Maximum Support Properties: 20


Analysis Options

Analysis Methods Used

       Bishop simplified
       Janbu simplified

Number of slices: 25
Tolerance: 0.005
Maximum number of iterations: 50
Check malpha < 0.2: Yes
Initial trial value of FS: 1
Steffensen Iteration: Yes


Groundwater Analysis

Groundwater Method: Water Surfaces
Pore Fluid Unit Weight: 62.4 lbs/ft3
Advanced Groundwater Method: None


Random Numbers

Pseudo-random Seed: 10116
Random Number Generation Method: Park and Miller v.3


Surface Options

Surface Type: Circular
Search Method: Grid Search
Radius Increment: 10
Composite Surfaces: Disabled
Reverse Curvature: Create Tension Crack
Minimum Elevation: Not Defined
Minimum Depth: Not Defined


Loading

1 Distributed Load present


Distributed Load 1
       Distribution: Constant
       Magnitude [psf]: 500
       Orientation: Normal to boundary

                                                       Project
                                                                                                           Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                       Analysis Description
                                                                                                              Slope Stability
                                                       Drawn By                                    Scale             Company
                                                                                JKC                                                         G2
                                                       Date                                                          File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                              12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                            A-A' proposed grading.slim
Material Properties

          Property        Indurated Block and Ash Rock     Ash Deposits       Structural Fill   Reinforced Concrete Stacked Rocks
  Color                                             ___                 ___              ___                  ___             ___

  Strength Type                         Mohr-Coulomb Mohr-Coulomb Mohr-Coulomb                      Infinite strength Mohr-Coulomb
  Unit Weight [lbs/ft3]                             125                 120              120                   150            130
  Cohesion [psf]                                    250                   0              250                                      0
  Friction Angle [deg]                               36                  19                36                                     39
  Water Surface                              Water Table      Water Table       Water Table                  None      Water Table
  Hu Value                                            1                   1                 1                                     1
  Ru Value                                                                                                       0



Global Minimums

Method: bishop simplified
          FS: 0.804313
          Center: 462.363, 6246.610
          Radius: 258.172
          Left Slip Surface Endpoint: 358.458, 6010.270
          Right Slip Surface Endpoint: 363.488, 6008.122
          Resisting Moment=12842 lb-ft
          Driving Moment=15966.4 lb-ft
          Total Slice Area=1.30935 ft2


Method: janbu simplified
          FS: 0.804180
          Center: 462.363, 6246.610
          Radius: 258.172
          Left Slip Surface Endpoint: 358.458, 6010.270
          Right Slip Surface Endpoint: 363.488, 6008.122
          Resisting Horizontal Force=45.7197 lb
          Driving Horizontal Force=56.8526 lb
          Total Slice Area=1.30935 ft2


Valid / Invalid Surfaces

Method: bishop simplified
          Number of Valid Surfaces: 3698
          Number of Invalid Surfaces: 1153


          Error Codes:

                 Error Code -99 reported for 650 surfaces
                 Error Code -103 reported for 123 surfaces
                 Error Code -106 reported for 16 surfaces
                 Error Code -109 reported for 1 surface
                 Error Code -1000 reported for 363 surfaces


Method: janbu simplified
          Number of Valid Surfaces: 3697
          Number of Invalid Surfaces: 1154


          Error Codes:

                 Error Code -99 reported for 650 surfaces
                 Error Code -103 reported for 123 surfaces
                 Error Code -106 reported for 16 surfaces
                 Error Code -108 reported for 1 surface
                 Error Code -109 reported for 1 surface
                 Error Code -1000 reported for 363 surfaces


          Error Codes

                 The following errors were encountered during the computation:

                 -99 = Slip surface intersects an infinite strength material. If infinite strength regions are defined for a model, a large number of potential slip surfaces may show this error code. This is Normal.
                 -103 = Two surface / slope intersections, but one or more surface / nonslope external polygon intersections lie between them. This usually occurs when the slip surface extends past the bottom of the soil region, but may
                 also occur on a benched slope model with two sets of Slope Limits.
                 -106 = Average slice width is less than 0.0001 * (maximum horizontal extent of soil region). This limitation is imposed to avoid numerical errors which may result from too many slices, or too small a slip region.

                                                              Project
                                                                                                                                       Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                              Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                           Slope Stability
                                                              Drawn By                                                    Scale                        Company
                                                                                           JKC                                                                                                   G2
                                                              Date                                                                                     File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                       12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                A-A' proposed grading.slim
              -108 = Total driving moment or total driving force < 0.1. This is to limit the calculation of extremely high safety factors if the driving force is very small (0.1 is an arbitrary number).
              -109 = Soiltype for slice base not located. This error should occur very rarely, if at all. It may occur if a very low number of slices is combined with certain soil geometries, such that the midpoint of a slice base is actually
              outside the soil region,even though the slip surface is wholly within the soil region.
              -1000 = No valid slip surfaces are generated at a grid center. Unable to draw a surface.


Slice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.804313
                                                   Base             Base         Shear      Shear      Base         Pore               Effective
   Slice    Width      Weight        Base
                                                 Cohesion      Friction Angle    Stress    Strength Normal Stress Pressure           Normal Stress
  Number     [ft]       [lbs]       Material
                                                   [psf]          [degrees]       [psf]      [psf]      [psf]       [psf]                 [psf]
        1 0.201188 0.702287 Ash Deposits                  0                19    1.25806    1.01187           2.93868            0          2.93868
        2 0.201188      2.1044 Ash Deposits               0                19    3.77112    3.03316           8.80892            0          8.80892
        3 0.201188     3.50158 Ash Deposits               0                19    6.27718    5.04882           14.6628            0          14.6628
        4 0.201188     4.89384 Ash Deposits               0                19    8.77626    7.05886           20.5004            0          20.5004
        5 0.201188     6.28119 Ash Deposits               0                19    11.2683    9.06327           26.3216            0          26.3216
        6 0.201188     7.66363 Ash Deposits               0                19    13.7535    11.0621           32.1266            0          32.1266
        7 0.201188     9.04117 Ash Deposits               0                19    16.2315    13.0552           37.9151            0          37.9151
        8 0.201188     10.4138 Ash Deposits               0                19    18.7025    15.0427           43.6873            0          43.6873
        9 0.201188     11.7801 Ash Deposits               0                19    21.1641    17.0226            49.437            0           49.437
       10 0.201188     12.0178 Ash Deposits               0                19    21.5991    17.3724           50.4532            0          50.4532
       11 0.201188     11.2777 Ash Deposits               0                19    20.2761    16.3083           47.3627            0          47.3627
       12 0.201188     10.5326 Ash Deposits               0                19    18.9434    15.2364           44.2498            0          44.2498
       13 0.201188     9.78263 Ash Deposits               0                19     17.601    14.1567            41.114            0           41.114
       14 0.201188     9.02782 Ash Deposits               0                19    16.2488    13.0691           37.9554            0          37.9554
       15 0.201188     8.26815 Ash Deposits               0                19    14.8869    11.9737           34.7741            0          34.7741
       16 0.201188     7.50362 Ash Deposits               0                19    13.5153    10.8705           31.5701            0          31.5701
       17 0.201188     6.73424 Ash Deposits               0                19    12.1338    9.75939           28.3433            0          28.3433
       18 0.201188     5.96001 Ash Deposits               0                19    10.7427    8.64049           25.0938            0          25.0938
       19 0.201188     5.18095 Ash Deposits               0                19    9.34182    7.51375           21.8215            0          21.8215
       20 0.201188     4.39705 Ash Deposits               0                19    7.93123    6.37919           18.5265            0          18.5265
       21 0.201188     3.60832 Ash Deposits               0                19     6.5109      5.2368          15.2088            0          15.2088
       22 0.201188     2.81476 Ash Deposits               0                19    5.08082    4.08657           11.8682            0          11.8682
       23 0.201188     2.01639 Ash Deposits               0                19    3.64102    2.92852           8.50504            0          8.50504
       24 0.201188      1.2132 Ash Deposits               0                19    2.19147    1.76263           5.11904            0          5.11904
       25 0.201188 0.405201 Ash Deposits                  0                19 0.732203      0.58892           1.71035            0          1.71035

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.80418
                                                   Base             Base         Shear      Shear         Base         Pore            Effective
   Slice    Width      Weight        Base
                                                 Cohesion      Friction Angle    Stress    Strength    Normal Stress Pressure        Normal Stress
  Number     [ft]       [lbs]       Material
                                                   [psf]          [degrees]       [psf]      [psf]         [psf]       [psf]              [psf]
        1 0.201188 0.702287 Ash Deposits                  0                19    1.25806     1.01171          2.93823            0          2.93823
        2 0.201188      2.1044 Ash Deposits               0                19    3.77117      3.0327           8.8076            0           8.8076
        3 0.201188     3.50158 Ash Deposits               0                19    6.27729     5.04807          14.6606            0          14.6606
        4 0.201188     4.89384 Ash Deposits               0                19    8.77641     7.05781          20.4974            0          20.4974
        5 0.201188     6.28119 Ash Deposits               0                19    11.2685     9.06192          26.3178            0          26.3178
        6 0.201188     7.66363 Ash Deposits               0                19    13.7536     11.0604          32.1218            0          32.1218
        7 0.201188     9.04117 Ash Deposits               0                19    16.2318     13.0533          37.9095            0          37.9095
        8 0.201188     10.4138 Ash Deposits               0                19    18.7029     15.0405          43.6808            0          43.6808
        9 0.201188     11.7801 Ash Deposits               0                19    21.1644       17.02          49.4297            0          49.4297
       10 0.201188     12.0178 Ash Deposits               0                19    21.5994     17.3698          50.4454            0          50.4454
       11 0.201188     11.2777 Ash Deposits               0                19    20.2764     16.3059          47.3559            0          47.3559
       12 0.201188     10.5326 Ash Deposits               0                19    18.9438     15.2342          44.2433            0          44.2433
       13 0.201188     9.78263 Ash Deposits               0                19    17.6013     14.1546          41.1079            0          41.1079
       14 0.201188     9.02782 Ash Deposits               0                19    16.2491     13.0672          37.9499            0          37.9499
       15 0.201188     8.26815 Ash Deposits               0                19    14.8871     11.9719          34.7691            0          34.7691
       16 0.201188     7.50362 Ash Deposits               0                19    13.5155     10.8689          31.5655            0          31.5655
       17 0.201188     6.73424 Ash Deposits               0                19    12.1341     9.75797          28.3392            0          28.3392
       18 0.201188     5.96001 Ash Deposits               0                19    10.7429     8.63923          25.0902            0          25.0902
       19 0.201188     5.18095 Ash Deposits               0                19    9.34203     7.51267          21.8184            0          21.8184
       20 0.201188     4.39705 Ash Deposits               0                19     7.9314     6.37827          18.5238            0          18.5238
       21 0.201188     3.60832 Ash Deposits               0                19    6.51103     5.23604          15.2066            0          15.2066
       22 0.201188     2.81476 Ash Deposits               0                19    5.08093     4.08598          11.8665            0          11.8665
       23 0.201188     2.01639 Ash Deposits               0                19     3.6411      2.9281           8.5038            0           8.5038
       24 0.201188      1.2132 Ash Deposits               0                19    2.19152     1.76238          5.11835            0          5.11835
       25 0.201188 0.405201 Ash Deposits                  0                19 0.732219 0.588836                1.7101            0           1.7101



Interslice Data
                                                              Project
                                                                                                                                         Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                              Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                               Slope Stability
                                                              Drawn By                                                       Scale                          Company
                                                                                          JKC                                                                                                           G2
                                                              Date                                                                                          File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                     12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                       A-A' proposed grading.slim
Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.804313
              X                  Y             Interslice       Interslice    Interslice
   Slice
         coordinate     coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force     Shear Force   Force Angle
  Number
             [ft]               [ft]              [lbs]            [lbs]      [degrees]
        1     358.458               6010.27               0              0             0
        2     358.659               6010.18     0.00672001               0             0
        3     358.861               6010.09      0.0250656               0             0
        4     359.062               6010.01      0.0526126               0             0
        5     359.263               6009.92      0.0869512               0             0
        6     359.464               6009.83       0.125685               0             0
        7     359.665               6009.74       0.166432               0             0
        8     359.866               6009.66       0.206824               0             0
        9     360.068               6009.57       0.244506               0             0
       10     360.269               6009.48       0.277133               0             0
       11      360.47                6009.4       0.300223               0             0
       12     360.671               6009.31       0.312325               0             0
       13     360.872               6009.22       0.314698               0             0
       14     361.074               6009.14       0.308611               0             0
       15     361.275               6009.05       0.295346               0             0
       16     361.476               6008.97       0.276194               0             0
       17     361.677               6008.88       0.252461               0             0
       18     361.878                6008.8       0.225461               0             0
       19      362.08               6008.71       0.196524               0             0
       20     362.281               6008.63       0.166988               0             0
       21     362.482               6008.54       0.138203               0             0
       22     362.683               6008.46       0.111532               0             0
       23     362.884               6008.37      0.0883491               0             0
       24     363.086               6008.29      0.0700386               0             0
       25     363.287               6008.21      0.0579974               0             0
       26     363.488               6008.12               0              0             0

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.80418
              X                  Y             Interslice       Interslice    Interslice
   Slice
         coordinate     coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force     Shear Force   Force Angle
  Number
             [ft]               [ft]              [lbs]            [lbs]      [degrees]
        1     358.458               6010.27               0              0             0
        2     358.659               6010.18     0.00647927               0             0
        3     358.861               6010.09      0.0241035               0             0
        4     359.062               6010.01      0.0504503               0             0
        5     359.263               6009.92      0.0831113               0             0
        6     359.464               6009.83       0.119692               0             0
        7     359.665               6009.74       0.157812               0             0
        8     359.866               6009.66       0.195105               0             0
        9     360.068               6009.57       0.229217               0             0
       10     360.269               6009.48       0.257807               0             0
       11      360.47                6009.4       0.276777               0             0
       12     360.671               6009.31       0.285014               0             0
       13     360.872               6009.22       0.283777               0             0
       14     361.074               6009.14       0.274337               0             0
       15     361.275               6009.05       0.257977               0             0
       16     361.476               6008.97       0.235991               0             0
       17     361.677               6008.88       0.209686               0             0
       18     361.878                6008.8       0.180378               0             0
       19      362.08               6008.71       0.149398               0             0
       20     362.281               6008.63       0.118086               0             0
       21     362.482               6008.54      0.0877942               0             0
       22     362.683               6008.46      0.0598865               0             0
       23     362.884               6008.37      0.0357383               0             0
       24     363.086               6008.29      0.0167365               0             0
       25     363.287               6008.21     0.00427947               0             0
       26     363.488               6008.12               0              0             0



List Of Coordinates

Water Table


                                                        Project
                                                                                                            Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                        Analysis Description
                                                                                                              Slope Stability
                                                        Drawn By                                    Scale            Company
                                                                                   JKC                                                      G2
                                                        Date                                                         File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' proposed grading.slim
           X           Y
        1.60415 5968.62
        513.246 5968.62


Distributed Load
           X           Y
         219.35 6037.27
        210.562 6037.27
         193.55 6037.27


External Boundary
           X           Y
        1.60415        5900
        445.376        5900
        513.246        5900
        513.246        5976
        502.287        5974
        498.945        5974
         479.41        5976
        471.888        5978
        466.281        5980
        459.281        5982
        452.637        5984
        446.461        5986
        438.912        5988
        433.366        5990
         428.19        5992
        422.828        5994
        418.135        5996
        409.229        5998
        402.248        6000
        397.593        6002
        388.863        6004
        379.723        6006
        363.698        6008
        360.261        6010
        346.925        6012
        327.399        6014
        307.856        6016
         303.25 6018.69
         303.25        6023
         299.25        6026
         295.25        6026
         295.25   6031.5
         278.69        6032
         274.55   6035.9
        273.805 6035.92
        262.666 6036.19
        247.282 6036.58
        224.498 6037.14
         219.35 6037.27
         218.35 6037.27
        210.562 6037.27
         193.55 6037.27
         193.55 6046.38
         192.55 6046.38
        190.354 6046.38
         181.55 6046.38
         181.55   6050.7
          177.1        6054
        176.146 6054.43
        172.616        6056
        168.085        6058
        164.144        6060
         159.61        6062
        154.835        6064
                              Project
                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista
                              Analysis Description
                                                                                   Slope Stability
                              Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                       JKC                                                       G2
                              Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                     12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' proposed grading.slim
        150.338        6066
        143.192        6068
        132.885        6070
        123.564        6072
        113.812        6074
        106.804        6076
         103.42        6078
        89.8716        6080
         85.293        6082
        77.3063        6084
        69.4285        6086
        61.6776        6088
        1.60415        6090


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        210.562 6037.27
         218.35 6032.72
         219.35 6032.24
        221.873 6030.66
        445.376        5900


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        221.873 6030.66
        224.042 6036.02
        224.498 6037.14


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        224.042 6036.02
        224.099        6036
        234.291        6034
        248.946        6032
        261.525        6030
        274.197        6028
        288.418        6026
        293.288        6024
        300.911        6020
         302.25 6019.25
         303.25 6018.69


Material Boundary
           X       Y
        181.55 6046.38
        180.55 6046.38
        180.55    6050.7
        181.55    6050.7


Material Boundary
           X       Y
        192.55 6046.38
        192.55 6037.27
        193.55 6037.27


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        273.805 6035.92
        275.324        6032
         278.69        6032


Material Boundary
                              Project
                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista
                              Analysis Description
                                                                                   Slope Stability
                              Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                       JKC                                                       G2
                              Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                     12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' proposed grading.slim
           X      Y
        295.25    6026
        294.25    6026
        294.25 6031.5
        295.25 6031.5


Material Boundary
           X       Y
        303.25 6018.69
        302.25 6018.69
        302.25 6019.25
        302.25     6023
        303.25     6023


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        176.146 6054.43
         178.14   6050.7
         180.55   6050.7


Material Boundary
           X       Y
        218.35 6037.27
        218.35 6032.72
        218.35 6032.24
        219.35 6032.24
        219.35 6037.27




                           Project
                                                                              Lot #27 Oak Vista
                           Analysis Description
                                                                                Slope Stability
                           Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                    JKC                                                       G2
                           Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                  12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' proposed grading.slim
       Safety Factor
              0.00
              0.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.25
              0.50
              0.75                                                 Unit Weight                           Cohesion Phi
6250




                                    Material Name            Color                      Strength Type                     Water Surface   Hu Type Hu Ru
              1.00                                                  (lbs/ 3)                               (psf)  (deg)
              1.25
              1.50            Indurated Block and Ash Rock             125              Mohr-Coulomb          250   36    Water Surface   Custom    1
              1.75
              2.00                   Ash Deposits                      120              Mohr-Coulomb           0    19    Water Surface   Custom    1
              2.25
              2.50                   Structural Fill                   120              Mohr-Coulomb          250   36    Water Surface   Custom    1
6200




              2.75
              3.00                Reinforced Concrete                  150           Inﬁnite strength                           None                     0
              3.25
              3.50                   Stacked Rocks                     130              Mohr-Coulomb           0    39    Water Surface   Custom    1
              3.75
              4.00
              4.25
6150




              4.50
              4.75
              5.00
              5.25
              5.50                                                                                                                                                       1.14
              5.75
              6.00+
6100




                                                                                                                                            Oiginal Grade

                                                                                                                                            500.00 lbs/ft2
6050
6000




                                                                                                                                                                     W
5950
5900




         -150          -100                -50                0                    50                   100               150              200                 250           300               350      400   450                 500            550           600
                                                                         Project
                                                                                                                                                                                   Lot #27 Oak Vista                                Run 8 - Proposed Site Grading - Seismic1
                                                                         Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                                         Drawn By                                                                            Scale                          Company
                                                                                                                    JKC                                                  1:598                                                 G2
                                                                         Date                                                                                                               File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                                           12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                  A-A' proposed grading.slim
                                                                                      Slide Analysis Information
                                                                                          Lot #27 Oak Vista

Project Summary

File Name: A-A' proposed grading
Slide Modeler Version: 6.039
Project Title: Lot #27 Oak Vista
Analysis: Slope Stability
Author: JKC
Company: G2
Date Created: 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM


General Settings

Units of Measurement: Imperial Units
Time Units: days
Permeability Units: feet/second
Failure Direction: Left to Right
Data Output: Standard
Maximum Material Properties: 20
Maximum Support Properties: 20


Analysis Options

Analysis Methods Used

       Bishop simplified
       Janbu simplified

Number of slices: 25
Tolerance: 0.005
Maximum number of iterations: 50
Check malpha < 0.2: Yes
Initial trial value of FS: 1
Steffensen Iteration: Yes


Groundwater Analysis

Groundwater Method: Water Surfaces
Pore Fluid Unit Weight: 62.4 lbs/ft3
Advanced Groundwater Method: None


Random Numbers

Pseudo-random Seed: 10116
Random Number Generation Method: Park and Miller v.3


Surface Options

Surface Type: Circular
Search Method: Grid Search
Radius Increment: 10
Composite Surfaces: Disabled
Reverse Curvature: Create Tension Crack
Minimum Elevation: Not Defined
Minimum Depth: Not Defined


Loading

Seismic Load Coefficient (Horizontal): 0.25
1 Distributed Load present


Distributed Load 1
       Distribution: Constant
       Magnitude [psf]: 500

                                                       Project
                                                                                                           Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                       Analysis Description
                                                                                                              Slope Stability
                                                       Drawn By                                    Scale             Company
                                                                                JKC                                                         G2
                                                       Date                                                          File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                              12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                            A-A' proposed grading.slim
          Orientation: Normal to boundary


Material Properties

          Property        Indurated Block and Ash Rock     Ash Deposits       Structural Fill   Reinforced Concrete Stacked Rocks
  Color                                             ___                 ___              ___                  ___             ___

  Strength Type                         Mohr-Coulomb Mohr-Coulomb Mohr-Coulomb                      Infinite strength Mohr-Coulomb
  Unit Weight [lbs/ft3]                             125                 120              120                   150            130
  Cohesion [psf]                                    250                   0              250                                      0
  Friction Angle [deg]                               36                  19                36                                     39
  Water Surface                              Water Table      Water Table       Water Table                  None      Water Table
  Hu Value                                            1                   1                 1                                     1
  Ru Value                                                                                                       0



Global Minimums

Method: bishop simplified
          FS: 0.454044
          Center: 462.363, 6246.610
          Radius: 258.172
          Left Slip Surface Endpoint: 358.458, 6010.270
          Right Slip Surface Endpoint: 363.488, 6008.122
          Resisting Moment=11479.2 lb-ft
          Driving Moment=25282.1 lb-ft
          Total Slice Area=1.30935 ft2


Method: janbu simplified
          FS: 0.453551
          Center: 462.363, 6246.610
          Radius: 258.172
          Left Slip Surface Endpoint: 358.458, 6010.270
          Right Slip Surface Endpoint: 363.488, 6008.122
          Resisting Horizontal Force=40.8603 lb
          Driving Horizontal Force=90.0898 lb
          Total Slice Area=1.30935 ft2


Valid / Invalid Surfaces

Method: bishop simplified
          Number of Valid Surfaces: 3698
          Number of Invalid Surfaces: 1153


          Error Codes:

                 Error Code -99 reported for 650 surfaces
                 Error Code -103 reported for 123 surfaces
                 Error Code -106 reported for 16 surfaces
                 Error Code -109 reported for 1 surface
                 Error Code -1000 reported for 363 surfaces


Method: janbu simplified
          Number of Valid Surfaces: 3698
          Number of Invalid Surfaces: 1153


          Error Codes:

                 Error Code -99 reported for 650 surfaces
                 Error Code -103 reported for 123 surfaces
                 Error Code -106 reported for 16 surfaces
                 Error Code -109 reported for 1 surface
                 Error Code -1000 reported for 363 surfaces


          Error Codes

                 The following errors were encountered during the computation:

                 -99 = Slip surface intersects an infinite strength material. If infinite strength regions are defined for a model, a large number of potential slip surfaces may show this error code. This is Normal.
                 -103 = Two surface / slope intersections, but one or more surface / nonslope external polygon intersections lie between them. This usually occurs when the slip surface extends past the bottom of the soil region, but may
                 also occur on a benched slope model with two sets of Slope Limits.
                 -106 = Average slice width is less than 0.0001 * (maximum horizontal extent of soil region). This limitation is imposed to avoid numerical errors which may result from too many slices, or too small a slip region.

                                                              Project
                                                                                                                                       Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                              Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                           Slope Stability
                                                              Drawn By                                                    Scale                        Company
                                                                                           JKC                                                                                                   G2
                                                              Date                                                                                     File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                       12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                A-A' proposed grading.slim
              -109 = Soiltype for slice base not located. This error should occur very rarely, if at all. It may occur if a very low number of slices is combined with certain soil geometries, such that the midpoint of a slice base is actually
              outside the soil region,even though the slip surface is wholly within the soil region.
              -1000 = No valid slip surfaces are generated at a grid center. Unable to draw a surface.


Slice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.454044
                                                   Base             Base        Shear      Shear         Base            Pore          Effective
   Slice    Width      Weight        Base
                                                 Cohesion      Friction Angle   Stress    Strength    Normal Stress    Pressure      Normal Stress
  Number     [ft]       [lbs]       Material
                                                   [psf]          [degrees]      [psf]      [psf]         [psf]          [psf]            [psf]
        1 0.201188 0.702287 Ash Deposits                  0                19 1.98752      0.90242           2.62082            0          2.62082
        2 0.201188      2.1044 Ash Deposits               0                19     5.959    2.70565           7.85777            0          7.85777
        3 0.201188     3.50158 Ash Deposits               0                19 9.92111      4.50462           13.0824            0          13.0824
        4 0.201188     4.89384 Ash Deposits               0                19 13.8738      6.29933           18.2946            0          18.2946
        5 0.201188     6.28119 Ash Deposits               0                19 17.8171      8.08977           23.4944            0          23.4944
        6 0.201188     7.66363 Ash Deposits               0                19   21.751     9.87593           28.6818            0          28.6818
        7 0.201188     9.04117 Ash Deposits               0                19 25.6755      11.6578           33.8568            0          33.8568
        8 0.201188     10.4138 Ash Deposits               0                19 29.5905      13.4354           39.0193            0          39.0193
        9 0.201188     11.7801 Ash Deposits               0                19 33.4921      15.2069           44.1641            0          44.1641
       10 0.201188     12.0178 Ash Deposits               0                19 34.1877      15.5227           45.0812            0          45.0812
       11 0.201188     11.2777 Ash Deposits               0                19 32.1004       14.575           42.3288            0          42.3288
       12 0.201188     10.5326 Ash Deposits               0                19 29.9969      13.6199            39.555            0           39.555
       13 0.201188     9.78263 Ash Deposits               0                19 27.8768      12.6573           36.7596            0          36.7596
       14 0.201188     9.02782 Ash Deposits               0                19 25.7407      11.6874           33.9427            0          33.9427
       15 0.201188     8.26815 Ash Deposits               0                19 23.5882      10.7101           31.1043            0          31.1043
       16 0.201188     7.50362 Ash Deposits               0                19 21.4193       9.7253           28.2443            0          28.2443
       17 0.201188     6.73424 Ash Deposits               0                19 19.2341      8.73311           25.3628            0          25.3628
       18 0.201188     5.96001 Ash Deposits               0                19 17.0325      7.73349           22.4597            0          22.4597
       19 0.201188     5.18095 Ash Deposits               0                19 14.8145      6.72645            19.535            0           19.535
       20 0.201188     4.39705 Ash Deposits               0                19 12.5802      5.71196           16.5887            0          16.5887
       21 0.201188     3.60832 Ash Deposits               0                19 10.3295      4.69004           13.6209            0          13.6209
       22 0.201188     2.81476 Ash Deposits               0                19 8.06239      3.66068           10.6314            0          10.6314
       23 0.201188     2.01639 Ash Deposits               0                19 5.77887      2.62386           7.62026            0          7.62026
       24 0.201188      1.2132 Ash Deposits               0                19 3.47896       1.5796           4.58748            0          4.58748
       25 0.201188 0.405201 Ash Deposits                  0                19 1.16261 0.527876               1.53306            0          1.53306

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.453551
                                                   Base             Base        Shear      Shear         Base            Pore          Effective
   Slice    Width      Weight        Base
                                                 Cohesion      Friction Angle   Stress    Strength    Normal Stress    Pressure      Normal Stress
  Number     [ft]       [lbs]       Material
                                                   [psf]          [degrees]      [psf]      [psf]         [psf]          [psf]            [psf]
        1 0.201188 0.702287 Ash Deposits                  0                19     1.989 0.902113             2.61993            0          2.61993
        2 0.201188      2.1044 Ash Deposits               0                19 5.96345      2.70473           7.85513            0          7.85513
        3 0.201188     3.50158 Ash Deposits               0                19 9.92854       4.5031           13.0779            0          13.0779
        4 0.201188     4.89384 Ash Deposits               0                19 13.8842       6.2972           18.2884            0          18.2884
        5 0.201188     6.28119 Ash Deposits               0                19 17.8305      8.08704           23.4865            0          23.4865
        6 0.201188     7.66363 Ash Deposits               0                19 21.7674      9.87261           28.6721            0          28.6721
        7 0.201188     9.04117 Ash Deposits               0                19 25.6948      11.6539           33.8454            0          33.8454
        8 0.201188     10.4138 Ash Deposits               0                19 29.6128      13.4309           39.0062            0          39.0062
        9 0.201188     11.7801 Ash Deposits               0                19 33.5173      15.2018           44.1493            0          44.1493
       10 0.201188     12.0178 Ash Deposits               0                19 34.2134      15.5175           45.0661            0          45.0661
       11 0.201188     11.2777 Ash Deposits               0                19 32.1245      14.5701           42.3147            0          42.3147
       12 0.201188     10.5326 Ash Deposits               0                19 30.0193      13.6153           39.5418            0          39.5418
       13 0.201188     9.78263 Ash Deposits               0                19 27.8979      12.6531           36.7474            0          36.7474
       14 0.201188     9.02782 Ash Deposits               0                19 25.7601      11.6835           33.9314            0          33.9314
       15 0.201188     8.26815 Ash Deposits               0                19 23.6059      10.7065            31.094            0           31.094
       16 0.201188     7.50362 Ash Deposits               0                19 21.4355      9.72208            28.235            0           28.235
       17 0.201188     6.73424 Ash Deposits               0                19 19.2486      8.73023           25.3544            0          25.3544
       18 0.201188     5.96001 Ash Deposits               0                19 17.0454      7.73094           22.4523            0          22.4523
       19 0.201188     5.18095 Ash Deposits               0                19 14.8257      6.72423           19.5286            0          19.5286
       20 0.201188     4.39705 Ash Deposits               0                19 12.5897      5.71009           16.5833            0          16.5833
       21 0.201188     3.60832 Ash Deposits               0                19 10.3373       4.6885           13.6164            0          13.6164
       22 0.201188     2.81476 Ash Deposits               0                19 8.06851      3.65948           10.6279            0          10.6279
       23 0.201188     2.01639 Ash Deposits               0                19 5.78327      2.62301           7.61778            0          7.61778
       24 0.201188      1.2132 Ash Deposits               0                19 3.48159      1.57908           4.58599            0          4.58599
       25 0.201188 0.405201 Ash Deposits                  0                19 1.16349 0.527704               1.53256            0          1.53256



Interslice Data

                                                              Project
                                                                                                                                          Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                              Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                               Slope Stability
                                                              Drawn By                                                       Scale                         Company
                                                                                          JKC                                                                                                           G2
                                                              Date                                                                                         File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                     12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                       A-A' proposed grading.slim
Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.454044
              X                     Y             Interslice      Interslice    Interslice
   Slice
         coordinate        coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force    Shear Force   Force Angle
  Number
             [ft]                  [ft]              [lbs]           [lbs]      [degrees]
        1       358.458                6010.27              0              0             0
        2       358.659                6010.18     0.00858483              0             0
        3       358.861                6010.09      0.0324168              0             0
        4       359.062                6010.01      0.0689229              0             0
        5       359.263                6009.92       0.115543              0             0
        6       359.464                6009.83       0.169731              0             0
        7       359.665                6009.74       0.228952              0             0
        8       359.866                6009.66       0.290687              0             0
        9       360.068                6009.57       0.352427              0             0
       10       360.269                6009.48       0.411672              0             0
       11       360.47                  6009.4       0.461302              0             0
       12       360.671                6009.31        0.49773              0             0
       13       360.872                6009.22       0.522275              0             0
       14       361.074                6009.14       0.536272              0             0
       15       361.275                6009.05       0.541066              0             0
       16       361.476                6008.97       0.538017              0             0
       17       361.677                6008.88       0.528497              0             0
       18       361.878                 6008.8       0.513894              0             0
       19       362.08                 6008.71       0.495606              0             0
       20       362.281                6008.63       0.475045              0             0
       21       362.482                6008.54       0.453637              0             0
       22       362.683                6008.46       0.432821              0             0
       23       362.884                6008.37       0.414049              0             0
       24       363.086                6008.29       0.398786              0             0
       25       363.287                6008.21       0.388511              0             0
       26       363.488                6008.12              0              0             0

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.453551
              X                     Y             Interslice      Interslice    Interslice
   Slice
         coordinate        coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force    Shear Force   Force Angle
  Number
             [ft]                  [ft]              [lbs]           [lbs]      [degrees]
        1       358.458                6010.27              0              0             0
        2       358.659                6010.18     0.00809852              0             0
        3       358.861                6010.09      0.0304727              0             0
        4       359.062                6010.01       0.064552              0             0
        5       359.263                6009.92       0.107779              0             0
        6       359.464                6009.83        0.15761              0             0
        7       359.665                6009.74       0.211514              0             0
        8       359.866                6009.66       0.266972              0             0
        9       360.068                6009.57       0.321481              0             0
       10       360.269                6009.48       0.372541              0             0
       11       360.47                  6009.4       0.413818              0             0
       12       360.671                6009.31       0.442404              0             0
       13       360.872                6009.22       0.459623              0             0
       14       361.074                6009.14       0.466812              0             0
       15       361.275                6009.05       0.465321              0             0
       16       361.476                6008.97       0.456513              0             0
       17       361.677                6008.88       0.441765              0             0
       18       361.878                 6008.8       0.422467              0             0
       19       362.08                 6008.71       0.400022              0             0
       20       362.281                6008.63       0.375846              0             0
       21       362.482                6008.54       0.351369              0             0
       22       362.683                6008.46       0.328034              0             0
       23       362.884                6008.37       0.307295              0             0
       24       363.086                6008.29       0.290623              0             0
       25       363.287                6008.21       0.279499              0             0
       26       363.488                6008.12              0              0             0



List Of Coordinates

Water Table
            X          Y

                                                          Project
                                                                                                              Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                          Analysis Description
                                                                                                                Slope Stability
                                                          Drawn By                                    Scale            Company
                                                                                     JKC                                                      G2
                                                          Date                                                         File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                  12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' proposed grading.slim
        1.60415 5968.62
        513.246 5968.62


Distributed Load
           X           Y
         219.35 6037.27
        210.562 6037.27
         193.55 6037.27


External Boundary
           X           Y
        1.60415        5900
        445.376        5900
        513.246        5900
        513.246        5976
        502.287        5974
        498.945        5974
         479.41        5976
        471.888        5978
        466.281        5980
        459.281        5982
        452.637        5984
        446.461        5986
        438.912        5988
        433.366        5990
         428.19        5992
        422.828        5994
        418.135        5996
        409.229        5998
        402.248        6000
        397.593        6002
        388.863        6004
        379.723        6006
        363.698        6008
        360.261        6010
        346.925        6012
        327.399        6014
        307.856        6016
         303.25 6018.69
         303.25        6023
         299.25        6026
         295.25        6026
         295.25   6031.5
         278.69        6032
         274.55   6035.9
        273.805 6035.92
        262.666 6036.19
        247.282 6036.58
        224.498 6037.14
         219.35 6037.27
         218.35 6037.27
        210.562 6037.27
         193.55 6037.27
         193.55 6046.38
         192.55 6046.38
        190.354 6046.38
         181.55 6046.38
         181.55   6050.7
          177.1        6054
        176.146 6054.43
        172.616        6056
        168.085        6058
        164.144        6060
         159.61        6062
        154.835        6064
        150.338        6066
                              Project
                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista
                              Analysis Description
                                                                                   Slope Stability
                              Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                       JKC                                                       G2
                              Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                     12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' proposed grading.slim
        143.192        6068
        132.885        6070
        123.564        6072
        113.812        6074
        106.804        6076
         103.42        6078
        89.8716        6080
         85.293        6082
        77.3063        6084
        69.4285        6086
        61.6776        6088
        1.60415        6090


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        210.562 6037.27
         218.35 6032.72
         219.35 6032.24
        221.873 6030.66
        445.376        5900


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        221.873 6030.66
        224.042 6036.02
        224.498 6037.14


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        224.042 6036.02
        224.099        6036
        234.291        6034
        248.946        6032
        261.525        6030
        274.197        6028
        288.418        6026
        293.288        6024
        300.911        6020
         302.25 6019.25
         303.25 6018.69


Material Boundary
           X       Y
        181.55 6046.38
        180.55 6046.38
        180.55    6050.7
        181.55    6050.7


Material Boundary
           X       Y
        192.55 6046.38
        192.55 6037.27
        193.55 6037.27


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        273.805 6035.92
        275.324        6032
         278.69        6032


Material Boundary

                              Project
                                                                                 Lot #27 Oak Vista
                              Analysis Description
                                                                                   Slope Stability
                              Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                       JKC                                                       G2
                              Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                     12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' proposed grading.slim
           X      Y
        295.25    6026
        294.25    6026
        294.25 6031.5
        295.25 6031.5


Material Boundary
           X       Y
        303.25 6018.69
        302.25 6018.69
        302.25 6019.25
        302.25     6023
        303.25     6023


Material Boundary
           X           Y
        176.146 6054.43
         178.14   6050.7
         180.55   6050.7


Material Boundary
           X       Y
        218.35 6037.27
        218.35 6032.72
        218.35 6032.24
        219.35 6032.24
        219.35 6037.27




                           Project
                                                                              Lot #27 Oak Vista
                           Analysis Description
                                                                                Slope Stability
                           Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                    JKC                                                       G2
                           Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                  12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A' proposed grading.slim
6400

       Safety Factor                                                                                                                          1.01
              0.00
              0.25
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.065
              0.50
              0.75
              1.00
              1.25
              1.50
6300




              1.75
              2.00
              2.25
              2.50
              2.75
              3.00
              3.25
              3.50
6200




              3.75
              4.00
              4.25
              4.50                                                        Unit Weight                    Cohesion Phi
              4.75                     Material Name              Color                  Strength Type                  Water Surface Hu Type Hu
                                                                           (lbs/ 3)                        (psf)  (deg)
              5.00
              5.25            Indurated Block and Ash Rock                   125         Mohr-Coulomb      250         36     Water Surface Custom   1
              5.50
              5.75
6100




                                   Weathered Ash Deposits                    120         Mohr-Coulomb          0       16     Water Surface Custom   1
              6.00+
6000




                                                                                                W                        30.0
5900




                       -100    0                            100                    200                   300                            400              500             600
                                         Project
                                                                                                               Lot #27 Oak Vista               Run 9 - Derivation of Ky = 0.065 - Seismic
                                         Analysis Description
                                                                                                                   Slope Stability
                                         Drawn By                                               Scale                       Company
                                                                    JKC                                  1:993                                                 G2
                                         Date                                                                               File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                    12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                               A-A'.slim
                                                                                                 Slide Analysis Information
                                                                                                     Lot #27 Oak Vista

Project Summary

File Name: A-A'
Slide Modeler Version: 6.039
Project Title: Lot #27 Oak Vista
Analysis: Slope Stability
Author : JKC
Company : G2
Date Created: 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM


General Settings

Units of Measurement: Imperial Units
Time Units: days
Permeability Units: feet/second
Failure Direction: Left to Right
Data Output : Standard
Maximum Material Properties: 20
Maximum Support Properties: 20


Analysis Options

Analysis Methods Used

         Bishop simplified
         Janbu simplified

Number of slices: 25
Tolerance: 0.005
Maximum number of iterations: 50
Check malpha < 0.2: Yes
Initial trial value of FS: 1
Steffensen Iteration: Yes


Groundwater Analysis

Groundwater Method: Water Surfaces
Pore Fluid Unit Weight: 62.4 lbs/ft3
Advanced Groundwater Method: None


Random Numbers

Pseudo-random Seed: 10116
Random Number Generation Method: Park and Miller v.3


Surface Options

Surface Type: Circular
Search Method: Grid Search
Radius Increment: 10
Composite Surfaces: Disabled
Reverse Curvature: Create Tension Crack
Minimum Elevation : Not Defined
Minimum Depth: 30


Loading

Seismic Load Coefficient (Horizontal): 0.065


Material Properties

         Property        Indurated Block and Ash Rock Weathered Ash Deposits
 Color                                           ___                     ___
 Strength Type                         Mohr-Coulomb           Mohr-Coulomb
 Unit Weight [lbs/ft3]                           125                     120
 Cohesion [psf]                                  250                        0
 Friction Angle [deg]                             36                      16
 Water Surface                            Water Table            Water Table
 Hu Value                                          1                        1



Global Minimums

Method: bishop simplified
         FS: 1.014390

                                                                  Project
                                                                                                                       Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                  Analysis Description
                                                                                                                         Slope Stability
                                                                  Drawn By                                     Scale            Company
                                                                                           JKC                                                 G2
                                                                  Date                                                          File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                         12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                            A-A'.slim
       Center: 436.538, 6393.494
       Radius : 421.097
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 206.728, 6040.634
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 486.060, 5975.319
       Resisting Moment=7.76185e+007 lb-ft
       Driving Moment=7.65175e+007 lb-ft
       Total Slice Area=5493.39 ft2


Method: janbu simplified
       FS: 0.986877
       Center: 436.538, 6375.723
       Radius : 405.731
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 208.706, 6040.000
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 495.714, 5974.331
       Resisting Horizontal Force=192717 lb
       Driving Horizontal Force=195280 lb
       Total Slice Area=5961.03 ft2


Valid / Invalid Surfaces

Method: bishop simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 625
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 9275


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 170 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 11 surfaces
              Error Code -104 reported for 3 surfaces
              Error Code -105 reported for 10 surfaces
              Error Code -115 reported for 1535 surfaces
              Error Code -1000 reported for 7546 surfaces


Method: janbu simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 625
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 9275


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 170 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 11 surfaces
              Error Code -104 reported for 3 surfaces
              Error Code -105 reported for 10 surfaces
              Error Code -115 reported for 1535 surfaces
              Error Code -1000 reported for 7546 surfaces


       Error Codes

              The following errors were encountered during the computation:

              -101 = Only one (or zero) surface / slope intersections.
              -103 = Two surface / slope intersections, but one or more surface / nonslope external polygon intersections lie between them. This usually occurs when the slip surface extends past the bottom of the soil region, but may also occur on a benched slope model with two
              sets of Slope Limits.
              -104 = Same as -102. Surface / nonslope intersections also exist, but these points lie outside the arc defined by the two surface / slope intersections.
              -105 = More than two surface / slope intersections with no valid slip surface.
              -115 = Surface too shallow, below the minimum depth.
              -1000 = No valid slip surfaces are generated at a grid center. Unable to draw a surface.


Slice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 1.01439
                                                           Base           Base        Shear     Shear        Base            Pore        Effective
  Slice    Width      Weight            Base
                                                         Cohesion    Friction Angle   Stress   Strength   Normal Stress    Pressure    Normal Stress
 Number     [ft]       [lbs]           Material
                                                           [psf]        [degrees]      [psf]     [psf]        [psf]          [psf]         [psf]
        1 11.1733 2732.84 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 58.6924      59.537          207.631           0         207.631
        2 11.1733 7977.01 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 173.088     175.579          612.316           0         612.316
        3 11.1733 13441.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 294.529     298.767          1041.93           0         1041.93
        4 11.1733 19188.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 424.457     430.565          1501.56           0         1501.56
        5 11.1733 24245.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 541.217     549.005          1914.61           0         1914.61
        6 11.1733 28672.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 645.704     654.996          2284.24           0         2284.24
        7 11.1733 32708.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 742.936     753.627          2628.21           0         2628.21
        8 11.1733      35374 Weathered Ash Deposits              0               16 810.203     821.862          2866.17           0         2866.17
        9 11.1733 33388.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 770.973     782.067          2727.39           0         2727.39
       10 11.1733 32830.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 764.181     775.178          2703.37           0         2703.37
       11 11.1733 35666.4 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 836.717     848.757          2959.96           0         2959.96
       12 11.1733      38066 Weathered Ash Deposits              0               16 899.933     912.883           3183.6           0          3183.6
       13 11.1733 39957.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 951.877     965.575          3367.36           0         3367.36
       14 11.1733 40672.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 976.259     990.307          3453.61           0         3453.61
       15 11.1733 39482.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 954.824     968.564          3377.78           0         3377.78
       16 11.1733 39655.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 966.163     980.066           3417.9           0          3417.9
       17 11.1733 38333.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16   940.92     954.46           3328.6           0          3328.6
       18 11.1733 35337.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 873.836     886.411          3091.28           0         3091.28
       19 11.1733 32159.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 801.157     812.686          2834.17           0         2834.17
       20 11.1733 27841.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 698.783     708.838          2472.01           0         2472.01
       21 11.1733 22434.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 567.283     575.446          2006.82           0         2006.82
       22 11.1733 17710.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0               16 451.226     457.719          1596.25           0         1596.25


                                                                     Project
                                                                                                                                                            Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                     Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                                  Slope Stability
                                                                     Drawn By                                                                 Scale                             Company
                                                                                                     JKC                                                                                                                           G2
                                                                     Date                                                                                                       File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                                                     A-A'.slim
       23 11.1733 12567.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 322.627      327.27        1141.32           0         1141.32
       24 11.1733 7009.54 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 181.341     183.951        641.514           0         641.514
       25 11.1733 1753.46 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 45.7187     46.3766        161.735           0         161.735

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.986877
                                                          Base           Base        Shear     Shear        Base           Pore       Effective
  Slice     Width   Weight             Base
                                                        Cohesion    Friction Angle   Stress   Strength   Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
 Number      [ft]    [lbs]            Material
                                                          [psf]        [degrees]      [psf]     [psf]        [psf]         [psf]        [psf]
        1 11.4803 3270.42 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 69.5494     68.6367        239.365           0         239.365
        2 11.4803 9229.47 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 198.543     195.938        683.317           0         683.317
        3 11.4803 15582.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 338.891     334.444        1166.34           0         1166.34
        4 11.4803 21936.6 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 482.106     475.779        1659.24           0         1659.24
        5 11.4803 27407.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 608.416     600.432        2093.96           0         2093.96
        6 11.4803 32244.4 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 722.781     713.296        2487.56           0         2487.56
        7 11.4803 36683.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 830.059     819.166        2856.77           0         2856.77
        8 11.4803 37914.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 865.771     854.409        2979.68           0         2979.68
        9 11.4803       35490 Weathered Ash Deposits            0               16 817.673     806.943        2814.14           0         2814.14
       10 11.4803 37435.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 870.058      858.64        2994.43           0         2994.43
       11 11.4803 40406.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16   947.18     934.75        3259.86           0         3259.86
       12 11.4803 42877.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16   1013.6     1000.3        3488.45           0         3488.45
       13 11.4803 44512.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 1061.06     1047.14          3651.8          0          3651.8
       14 11.4803 43987.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 1057.22     1043.35        3638.58           0         3638.58
       15 11.4803 43891.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 1063.57     1049.61        3660.44           0         3660.44
       16 11.4803 43210.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 1055.62     1041.77          3633.1          0          3633.1
       17 11.4803 40906.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 1007.48      994.26        3467.39           0         3467.39
       18 11.4803 37284.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 925.742     913.593        3186.08           0         3186.08
       19 11.4803 33589.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 840.813     829.779        2893.78           0         2893.78
       20 11.4803 27939.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 705.133      695.88        2426.82           0         2426.82
       21 11.4803 22742.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 578.722     571.127        1991.76           0         1991.76
       22 11.4803 17442.4 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 447.551     441.678        1540.32           0         1540.32
       23 11.4803 11689.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16   302.47    298.501           1041           0           1041
       24 11.4803 5787.16 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 151.033     149.051        519.801           0         519.801
       25 11.4803 1860.32 Weathered Ash Deposits                0               16 48.9746     48.3319        168.553           0         168.553



Interslice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 1.01439
             X                    Y             Interslice     Interslice     Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate       coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force   Shear Force    Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                 [ft]              [lbs]          [lbs]       [degrees]
        1     206.728               6040.63               0              0             0
        2     217.902                 6033.6        980.964              0             0
        3     229.075               6027.05         3577.54              0             0
        4     240.248               6020.95         7518.27              0             0
        5     251.421               6015.27         12542.4              0             0
        6     262.595                  6010         18150.4              0             0
        7     273.768               6005.13         23927.6              0             0
        8     284.941               6000.63         29562.8              0             0
        9     296.114                 5996.5        34642.2              0             0
       10     307.288               5992.72         38492.6              0             0
       11     318.461               5989.29         41362.1              0             0
       12     329.634               5986.19         43493.1              0             0
       13     340.807               5983.42         44722.7              0             0
       14     351.981               5980.97         44922.1              0             0
       15     363.154               5978.84         44017.2              0             0
       16     374.327               5977.02         42063.9              0             0
       17       385.5                 5975.5        39020.5              0             0
       18     396.674               5974.29         35028.9              0             0
       19     407.847               5973.38         30375.7              0             0
       20      419.02               5972.76         25247.7              0             0
       21     430.193               5972.44         20026.5              0             0
       22     441.367               5972.42         15181.6              0             0
       23      452.54                 5972.7        10845.8              0             0
       24     463.713               5973.27         7400.35              0             0
       25     474.886               5974.15         5268.78              0             0
       26      486.06               5975.32               0              0             0

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.986877
             X                    Y             Interslice     Interslice     Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate       coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force   Shear Force    Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                 [ft]              [lbs]          [lbs]       [degrees]
        1     208.706                  6040               0              0             0
        2     220.187               6032.49         1211.77              0             0
        3     231.667               6025.52         4297.16              0             0
        4     243.147               6019.05         8962.83              0             0
        5     254.628               6013.06         14791.3              0             0
        6     266.108               6007.52         21175.9              0             0
        7     277.588               6002.42         27658.5              0             0
        8     289.068               5997.74         33888.6              0             0
        9     300.549               5993.46         39166.6              0             0
       10     312.029               5989.57         43037.2              0             0
       11     323.509               5986.05         46005.9              0             0

                                                                    Project
                                                                                                                                                    Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                    Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                      Slope Stability
                                                                    Drawn By                                                               Scale             Company
                                                                                                    JKC                                                                     G2
                                                                    Date                                                                                     File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                               12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                   A-A'.slim
      12         334.99     5982.91   48019.3      0          0
      13         346.47     5980.12   48901.4      0          0
      14         357.95     5977.68   48520.6      0          0
      15         369.43     5975.58   46865.4      0          0
      16        380.911     5973.82   43937.1      0          0
      17        392.391      5972.4   39793.1      0          0
      18        403.871     5971.31   34669.6      0          0
      19        415.352     5970.55   28896.7      0          0
      20        426.832     5970.11   22691.6      0          0
      21        438.312       5970    16683.6      0          0
      22        449.793     5970.21   11093.4      0          0
      23        461.273     5970.75   6259.46      0          0
      24        472.753     5971.61   2645.99      0          0
      25        484.233     5972.81   667.525      0          0
      26        495.714     5974.33        0       0          0



List Of Coordinates

Water Table

            X           Y
       1.60415 5968.62
       513.246 5968.62


External Boundary

            X       Y
       1.60415 5900
       445.376 5900
       513.246 5900
       513.246 5976
       502.287 5974
       498.945 5974
           479.41 5976
       471.888 5978
       466.281 5980
       459.281 5982
       452.637 5984
       446.461 5986
       438.912 5988
       433.366 5990
           428.19 5992
       422.828 5994
       418.135 5996
       409.229 5998
       402.248 6000
       397.593 6002
       388.863 6004
       379.723 6006
       363.698 6008
       360.261 6010
       346.925 6012
       327.399 6014
       307.856 6016
           304.47 6018
       300.911 6020
       297.149 6022
       293.288 6024
       288.418 6026
       274.197 6028
       261.525 6030
       248.946 6032
       234.291 6034
       224.099 6036
       217.141 6038
       208.706 6040
       202.471 6042
       197.769 6044
       193.429 6046
       189.075 6048
       184.774 6050
       181.197 6052
            177.1 6054
       172.616 6056
       168.085 6058
       164.144 6060
           159.61 6062
       154.835 6064
       150.338 6066
       143.192 6068


                                                Project
                                                                                                   Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                Analysis Description
                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                                         JKC                                               G2
                                                Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                       12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A'.slim
       132.885 6070
       123.564 6072
       113.812 6074
       106.804 6076
        103.42 6078
       89.8716 6080
        85.293 6082
       77.3063 6084
       69.4285 6086
       61.6776 6088
       1.60415 6090


Material Boundary

         X      Y
       202.471 6042
       445.376 5900




                       Project
                                                                          Lot #27 Oak Vista
                       Analysis Description
                                                                            Slope Stability
                       Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                JKC                                               G2
                       Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                              12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A'.slim
6400

       Safety Factor
                                                                                                                                                 1.00
              0.00
              0.25
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.135
              0.50
              0.75
              1.00
              1.25
              1.50
6300




              1.75
              2.00
              2.25
              2.50
              2.75
              3.00
              3.25
              3.50
6200




              3.75
              4.00
              4.25
              4.50                                                          Unit Weight                     Cohesion Phi
              4.75                     Material Name                Color                  Strength Type                   Water Surface Hu Type Hu
                                                                             (lbs/ 3)                         (psf)  (deg)
              5.00
              5.25            Indurated Block and Ash Rock                     125         Mohr-Coulomb       250           36    Water Surface Custom   1
              5.50
              5.75
6100




                                   Weathered Ash Deposits                      120         Mohr-Coulomb           0        19.5 Water Surface Custom     1
              6.00+
6000




                                                                                                  W
5900




                       -100    0                              100                    200                    300                          400                 500            600
                                       Project
                                                                                                              Lot #27 Oak Vista                Run 10 - Derivation of Ky = 0.135 - Seismic
                                       Analysis Description
                                                                                                                      Slope Stability
                                       Drawn By                                                 Scale                        Company
                                                                    JKC                                    1:993                                                G2
                                       Date                                                                                  File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                    12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                  A-A'.slim
                                                                                                 Slide Analysis Information
                                                                                                     Lot #27 Oak Vista

Project Summary

File Name: A-A'
Slide Modeler Version: 6.039
Project Title: Lot #27 Oak Vista
Analysis: Slope Stability
Author : JKC
Company : G2
Date Created: 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM


General Settings

Units of Measurement: Imperial Units
Time Units: days
Permeability Units: feet/second
Failure Direction: Left to Right
Data Output : Standard
Maximum Material Properties: 20
Maximum Support Properties: 20


Analysis Options

Analysis Methods Used

         Bishop simplified
         Janbu simplified

Number of slices: 25
Tolerance: 0.005
Maximum number of iterations: 50
Check malpha < 0.2: Yes
Initial trial value of FS: 1
Steffensen Iteration: Yes


Groundwater Analysis

Groundwater Method: Water Surfaces
Pore Fluid Unit Weight: 62.4 lbs/ft3
Advanced Groundwater Method: None


Random Numbers

Pseudo-random Seed: 10116
Random Number Generation Method: Park and Miller v.3


Surface Options

Surface Type: Circular
Search Method: Grid Search
Radius Increment: 10
Composite Surfaces: Disabled
Reverse Curvature: Create Tension Crack
Minimum Elevation : Not Defined
Minimum Depth: 30


Loading

Seismic Load Coefficient (Horizontal): 0.135


Material Properties

         Property        Indurated Block and Ash Rock Weathered Ash Deposits
 Color                                           ___                     ___
 Strength Type                         Mohr-Coulomb           Mohr-Coulomb
 Unit Weight [lbs/ft3]                           125                     120
 Cohesion [psf]                                  250                        0
 Friction Angle [deg]                             36                     19.5
 Water Surface                            Water Table            Water Table
 Hu Value                                          1                        1



Global Minimums

Method: bishop simplified
         FS: 0.997449

                                                                  Project
                                                                                                                       Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                  Analysis Description
                                                                                                                         Slope Stability
                                                                  Drawn By                                     Scale            Company
                                                                                           JKC                                                 G2
                                                                  Date                                                          File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                         12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                            A-A'.slim
       Center: 436.538, 6393.494
       Radius : 421.097
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 206.728, 6040.634
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 486.060, 5975.319
       Resisting Moment=9.44712e+007 lb-ft
       Driving Moment=9.47128e+007 lb-ft
       Total Slice Area=5493.39 ft2


Method: janbu simplified
       FS: 0.969298
       Center: 436.538, 6393.494
       Radius : 421.097
       Left Slip Surface Endpoint : 206.728, 6040.634
       Right Slip Surface Endpoint : 486.060, 5975.319
       Resisting Horizontal Force=216110 lb
       Driving Horizontal Force=222955 lb
       Total Slice Area=5493.39 ft2


Valid / Invalid Surfaces

Method: bishop simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 625
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 9275


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 170 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 11 surfaces
              Error Code -104 reported for 3 surfaces
              Error Code -105 reported for 10 surfaces
              Error Code -115 reported for 1535 surfaces
              Error Code -1000 reported for 7546 surfaces


Method: janbu simplified
       Number of Valid Surfaces: 625
       Number of Invalid Surfaces: 9275


       Error Codes:

              Error Code -101 reported for 170 surfaces
              Error Code -103 reported for 11 surfaces
              Error Code -104 reported for 3 surfaces
              Error Code -105 reported for 10 surfaces
              Error Code -115 reported for 1535 surfaces
              Error Code -1000 reported for 7546 surfaces


       Error Codes

              The following errors were encountered during the computation:

              -101 = Only one (or zero) surface / slope intersections.
              -103 = Two surface / slope intersections, but one or more surface / nonslope external polygon intersections lie between them. This usually occurs when the slip surface extends past the bottom of the soil region, but may also occur on a benched slope model with two
              sets of Slope Limits.
              -104 = Same as -102. Surface / nonslope intersections also exist, but these points lie outside the arc defined by the two surface / slope intersections.
              -105 = More than two surface / slope intersections with no valid slip surface.
              -115 = Surface too shallow, below the minimum depth.
              -1000 = No valid slip surfaces are generated at a grid center. Unable to draw a surface.


Slice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.997449
                                                           Base           Base        Shear     Shear        Base            Pore        Effective
  Slice    Width      Weight            Base
                                                         Cohesion    Friction Angle   Stress   Strength   Normal Stress    Pressure    Normal Stress
 Number     [ft]       [lbs]           Material
                                                           [psf]        [degrees]      [psf]     [psf]        [psf]          [psf]         [psf]
        1 11.1733 2732.84 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 71.0127     70.8315          200.022           0         200.022
        2 11.1733 7977.01 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 209.867     209.332          591.134           0         591.134
        3 11.1733 13441.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 357.849     356.936          1007.96           0         1007.96
        4 11.1733 19188.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 516.744     515.426          1455.51           0         1455.51
        5 11.1733 24245.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 660.178     658.494          1859.53           0         1859.53
        6 11.1733 28672.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 789.139     787.126          2222.77           0         2222.77
        7 11.1733 32708.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 909.674     907.353          2562.29           0         2562.29
        8 11.1733      35374 Weathered Ash Deposits              0             19.5 993.871     991.336          2799.44           0         2799.44
        9 11.1733 33388.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 947.472     945.055          2668.75           0         2668.75
       10 11.1733 32830.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 940.821     938.421          2650.02           0         2650.02
       11 11.1733 35666.4 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1031.96     1029.33          2906.75           0         2906.75
       12 11.1733      38066 Weathered Ash Deposits              0             19.5 1111.92     1109.08          3131.93           0         3131.93
       13 11.1733 39957.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1178.18     1175.17          3318.58           0         3318.58
       14 11.1733 40672.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5   1210.5    1207.41          3409.62           0         3409.62
       15 11.1733 39482.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1186.03        1183          3340.68           0         3340.68
       16 11.1733 39655.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1202.25     1199.18          3386.38           0         3386.38
       17 11.1733 38333.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1172.93     1169.94          3303.81           0         3303.81
       18 11.1733 35337.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1091.27     1088.49          3073.81           0         3073.81
       19 11.1733 32159.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 1002.34      999.78           2823.3           0          2823.3
       20 11.1733 27841.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5   875.87    873.636          2467.07           0         2467.07
       21 11.1733 22434.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 712.378     710.561          2006.57           0         2006.57
       22 11.1733 17710.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                 0             19.5 567.717     566.269           1599.1           0          1599.1


                                                                     Project
                                                                                                                                                            Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                     Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                                  Slope Stability
                                                                     Drawn By                                                                 Scale                             Company
                                                                                                     JKC                                                                                                                           G2
                                                                     Date                                                                                                       File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                 12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                                                                     A-A'.slim
       23 11.1733 12567.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 406.708      405.67        1145.58           0         1145.58
       24 11.1733 7009.54 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 229.054      228.47        645.181           0         645.181
       25 11.1733 1753.46 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 57.8652     57.7176          162.99          0          162.99

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.969298
                                                          Base            Base        Shear     Shear        Base           Pore       Effective
  Slice     Width   Weight             Base
                                                        Cohesion     Friction Angle   Stress   Strength   Normal Stress   Pressure   Normal Stress
 Number      [ft]    [lbs]            Material
                                                          [psf]         [degrees]      [psf]     [psf]        [psf]         [psf]        [psf]
        1 11.1733 2732.84 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 72.6584     70.4276        198.881           0         198.881
        2 11.1733 7977.01 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 214.799     208.204        587.951           0         587.951
        3 11.1733 13441.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 366.372     355.124        1002.84           0         1002.84
        4 11.1733 19188.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 529.212     512.964        1448.56           0         1448.56
        5 11.1733 24245.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 676.306     655.542        1851.19           0         1851.19
        6 11.1733 28672.2 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 808.651     783.824        2213.45           0         2213.45
        7 11.1733 32708.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 932.433     903.805        2552.27           0         2552.27
        8 11.1733       35374 Weathered Ash Deposits            0              19.5 1019.02     987.736        2789.28           0         2789.28
        9 11.1733 33388.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 971.719     941.885          2659.8          0          2659.8
       10 11.1733 32830.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 965.163     935.531        2641.85           0         2641.85
       11 11.1733 35666.4 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1058.96     1026.45        2898.59           0         2898.59
       12 11.1733       38066 Weathered Ash Deposits            0              19.5   1141.3    1106.26        3123.99           0         3123.99
       13 11.1733 39957.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1209.65     1172.51        3311.08           0         3311.08
       14 11.1733 40672.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1243.18     1205.01        3402.84           0         3402.84
       15 11.1733 39482.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1218.38     1180.97        3334.95           0         3334.95
       16 11.1733 39655.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1235.38     1197.45          3381.5          0          3381.5
       17 11.1733 38333.7 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1205.59     1168.58        3299.97           0         3299.97
       18 11.1733 35337.8 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1121.98     1087.53        3071.09           0         3071.09
       19 11.1733 32159.3 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 1030.83     999.179          2821.6          0          2821.6
       20 11.1733 27841.9 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 901.026     873.363          2466.3          0          2466.3
       21 11.1733 22434.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 733.053     710.547        2006.52           0         2006.52
       22 11.1733 17710.5 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 584.368     566.427        1599.54           0         1599.54
       23 11.1733 12567.1 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 418.763     405.906        1146.24           0         1146.24
       24 11.1733 7009.54 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 235.918     228.675        645.758           0         645.758
       25 11.1733 1753.46 Weathered Ash Deposits                0              19.5 59.6182     57.7878        163.188           0         163.188



Interslice Data

Global Minimum Query (bishop simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.997449
             X                    Y             Interslice     Interslice      Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate       coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force   Shear Force     Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                 [ft]              [lbs]          [lbs]        [degrees]
        1     206.728               6040.63               0               0             0
        2     217.902                 6033.6        983.667               0             0
        3     229.075               6027.05         3596.38               0             0
        4     240.248               6020.95         7575.95               0             0
        5     251.421               6015.27         12669.3               0             0
        6     262.595                  6010         18378.8               0             0
        7     273.768               6005.13         24289.1               0             0
        8     284.941               6000.63           30087               0             0
        9     296.114                 5996.5        35350.4               0             0
       10     307.288               5992.72         39378.3               0             0
       11     318.461               5989.29         42422.7               0             0
       12     329.634               5986.19         44740.9               0             0
       13     340.807               5983.42         46163.2               0             0
       14     351.981               5980.97         46553.7               0             0
       15     363.154               5978.84           45828               0             0
       16     374.327               5977.02         44029.9               0             0
       17       385.5                 5975.5        41119.6               0             0
       18     396.674               5974.29         37230.8               0             0
       19     407.847               5973.38         32644.6               0             0
       20      419.02               5972.76           27549               0             0
       21     430.193               5972.44         22327.7               0             0
       22     441.367               5972.42         17457.4               0             0
       23      452.54                 5972.7        13079.2               0             0
       24     463.713               5973.27         9585.98               0             0
       25     474.886               5974.15         7416.92               0             0
       26      486.06               5975.32               0               0             0

Global Minimum Query (janbu simplified) - Safety Factor: 0.969298
             X                    Y             Interslice     Interslice      Interslice
  Slice
        coordinate       coordinate - Bottom   Normal Force   Shear Force     Force Angle
 Number
            [ft]                 [ft]              [lbs]          [lbs]        [degrees]
        1     206.728               6040.63               0               0             0
        2     217.902                 6033.6        955.391               0             0
        3     229.075               6027.05         3486.61               0             0
        4     240.248               6020.95         7330.28               0             0
        5     251.421               6015.27         12231.2               0             0
        6     262.595                  6010         17699.3               0             0
        7     273.768               6005.13         23325.3               0             0
        8     284.941               6000.63           28800               0             0
        9     296.114                 5996.5        33714.1               0             0
       10     307.288               5992.72         37412.4               0             0
       11     318.461               5989.29         40132.1               0             0

                                                                     Project
                                                                                                                                                     Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                                     Analysis Description
                                                                                                                                                       Slope Stability
                                                                     Drawn By                                                               Scale             Company
                                                                                                     JKC                                                                     G2
                                                                     Date                                                                                     File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                                                12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                                                   A-A'.slim
      12        329.634     5986.19   42096.2      0          0
      13        340.807     5983.42   43138.8      0          0
      14        351.981     5980.97   43128.2      0          0
      15        363.154     5978.84   41991.1      0          0
      16        374.327     5977.02   39789.9      0          0
      17          385.5      5975.5   36470.4      0          0
      18        396.674     5974.29   32181.1      0          0
      19        407.847     5973.38   27220.7      0          0
      20         419.02     5972.76   21779.3      0          0
      21        430.193     5972.44   16253.6      0          0
      22        441.367     5972.42   11133.6      0          0
      23         452.54      5972.7   6554.26      0          0
      24        463.713     5973.27   2915.26      0          0
      25        474.886     5974.15   662.973      0          0
      26         486.06     5975.32        0       0          0



List Of Coordinates

Water Table

            X           Y
       1.60415 5968.62
       513.246 5968.62


External Boundary

            X       Y
       1.60415 5900
       445.376 5900
       513.246 5900
       513.246 5976
       502.287 5974
       498.945 5974
           479.41 5976
       471.888 5978
       466.281 5980
       459.281 5982
       452.637 5984
       446.461 5986
       438.912 5988
       433.366 5990
           428.19 5992
       422.828 5994
       418.135 5996
       409.229 5998
       402.248 6000
       397.593 6002
       388.863 6004
       379.723 6006
       363.698 6008
       360.261 6010
       346.925 6012
       327.399 6014
       307.856 6016
           304.47 6018
       300.911 6020
       297.149 6022
       293.288 6024
       288.418 6026
       274.197 6028
       261.525 6030
       248.946 6032
       234.291 6034
       224.099 6036
       217.141 6038
       208.706 6040
       202.471 6042
       197.769 6044
       193.429 6046
       189.075 6048
       184.774 6050
       181.197 6052
            177.1 6054
       172.616 6056
       168.085 6058
       164.144 6060
           159.61 6062
       154.835 6064
       150.338 6066
       143.192 6068


                                                Project
                                                                                                   Lot #27 Oak Vista
                                                Analysis Description
                                                                                                     Slope Stability
                                                Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                                         JKC                                               G2
                                                Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                                                       12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A'.slim
       132.885 6070
       123.564 6072
       113.812 6074
       106.804 6076
        103.42 6078
       89.8716 6080
        85.293 6082
       77.3063 6084
       69.4285 6086
       61.6776 6088
       1.60415 6090


Material Boundary

         X      Y
       202.471 6042
       445.376 5900




                       Project
                                                                          Lot #27 Oak Vista
                       Analysis Description
                                                                            Slope Stability
                       Drawn By                                   Scale            Company
                                                JKC                                               G2
                       Date                                                        File Name
SLIDEINTERPRET 6.039
                                              12/17/2019, 11:37:18 AM                          A-A'.slim
                               GORDON
                       G
                           2
                               GEOTECHNICAL
                               ENGINEERING, INC.




   APPENDIX C


Deformation Analysis
Simplified Procedure for Estimating Earthquake Induced Deviatoric Slope Displacements
by Jonathan D. Bray and Thaleia Travasarou
Journal of Geotechnical and Geonvironmental Engineering, ASCE, V. 133(4), pp. 381-392, April 2007

SEE NOTES BELOW FOR GUIDANCE IN THE USE OF SPREADSHEET

Input Parameters
Yield Coefficient (ky)                                     0.065                 Based on pseudostatic analysis
Initial Fundamental Period (Ts)                             0.06 seconds         1D: Ts=4H/Vs 2D: Ts=2.6H/Vs
Degraded Period (1.5Ts)                                     0.09 seconds
Moment Magnitude (Mw)                                        7.0
Spectral Acceleration ( Sa(1.5Ts) )                         0.78 g

Additional Input Parameters
Probability of Exceedance #1 (P1)                              84 %
Probability of Exceedance #2 (P2)                              50 %
Probability of Exceedance #3 (P3)                              16 %
Displacement Threshold (d_threshold)                            5 cm

Intermediate Calculated Parameters
Non-Zero Seismic Displacement Est (D)                      47.06 cm              eq. (5) or (6)
Standard Deviation of Non-Zero Seismic D                    0.66

Results
Probability of Negligible Displ. (P(D=0))               0.000                    eq. (3)
D1                                                      24.41      cm            calc. using eq. (7)
D2                                                      47.06      cm            calc. using eq. (7)
D3                                                      90.73      cm            calc. using eq. (7)
P(D>d_threshold)                                        1.000                    eq. (7)

Notes
1. Values highlighted in blue are input parameters
2. Probability of Exceedance is the desired probability of exceeding a particular displacement value.
3. Displacements D1, D2, and D3 correspond to P1, P2, and P3, respectively.
   (e.g., the probability of exceeding displacement D1 is P1)
4. Calculated seismic displacements are due to deviatoric deformation only (add in volumetrically induced movement).
5. ky may range between 0.01 and 0.5, Ts between 0 and 2 s, Sa between 0.002 and 2.7 g, M between 4.5 and 9
6. Rigid slope is assumed for Ts < 0.05 s
7. When a value for D is not calculated, D is < 1cm
8. ky may be estimated using the simplified equations shown below.
9. Examples of how Ts is estimated are shown below.
10. Vs = weighted avg. shear wave velocity for the sliding mass, e.g., for 2 layers, Vs = [(h1)(Vs1) + (h2)(Vs2)]/(h1 + h2)




Simplified Procedure for Estimating Earthquake Induced Deviatoric Slope Displacements
by Jonathan D. Bray and Thaleia Travasarou
Journal of Geotechnical and Geonvironmental Engineering, Vol 133, No. 4, pp. 381-392, April 2007
Figures from Bray, J.D. (2007) “Chapter 14: Simplified Seismic Slope Displacement Procedures,”
Earthquake Geotechnical Engineering, 4th Inter. Conf. on Earthquake Geotechnical Engineering -
Invited Lectures, in Geotechnical, Geological, and Earthquake Engineering Series, Vol. 6,
Pitilakis, Kyriazis D., Ed., Springer, Vol. 6, pp. 327-353.




Simplified Procedure for Estimating Earthquake Induced Deviatoric Slope Displacements
by Jonathan D. Bray and Thaleia Travasarou
Journal of Geotechnical and Geonvironmental Engineering, Vol 133, No. 4, pp. 381-392, April 2007
Dependence on ky
ky                                           P(D="0")    D (cm)   Dmedian (cm)        D1 (cm)            D3 (cm)
0.020                                          0.00      115.0       115.0             221.6              59.6
0.05                                           0.00       62.2       62.2              119.9              32.3
0.07                                           0.00       43.1       43.1              83.2               22.4
0.1                                            0.00       27.0       27.0              52.0               14.0
0.15                                           0.00       14.3       14.2              27.5                7.4
0.2                                            0.00        8.5        8.4               16.3               4.4
0.3                                            0.10        3.7        3.4               6.8                1.4
0.4                                            0.37        1.9        1.1               3.0                <1

                               1000
                                                                                                Median

                                                                                                84% Percentile

                                                                                                16% Percentile
    Median Displacement (cm)




                               100




                                10




                                 1




                                0.1
                                   0.00   0.05    0.10    0.15     0.20        0.25    0.30     0.35             0.40

                                                           Yield Coefficient




Simplified Procedure for Estimating Earthquake Induced Deviatoric Slope Displacements
by Jonathan D. Bray and Thaleia Travasarou
Journal of Geotechnical and Geonvironmental Engineering, Vol 133, No. 4, pp. 381-392, April 2007
                                 GORDON
                         G
                             2
                                 GEOTECHNICAL
                                 ENGINEERING, INC.




    APPENDIX D


Supporting Information
20




                                                                             Effective Normal Clav SizE
                                                                               Stress(kPa)   Fraction (%)
      o                                                                      ---+--* 400
                                                                                       100
      o
      E
                                                                             -*--6---
                                                                             -*-{}--- 700
                                                                                                                <24
      t,
     E
      o                                                                      -----o-                1@
                                                                                                    400    25sGF<45
      o
      o,
      c                                         ll'+ ' e,5                   -:6r--
                                                                             -{--700 100
                                                                             ...t......4r....t...

      c
                                                                             ,ilr..,Dt.xrIr
                                                                             rnlrrrlrurrour
                                                                                                    400         >50
                                                                                                    700
      I()
     lr                                      A{.}3 on cF
                                             LL6o* br
     (E

     p      1
     c,
     o
     cf,
     q
     (E
     o
     o
  a                               r

                0     40 lpe 80             120         150              2oo                        2&          280     320
                                                Liquid Limit (percent)

Figure 2.I3 Relationship between drained residual
                                                              friction angle and tiquid limit {Stark and
                                                 Eid, I9g4)
            2.2



            2.0

                                       o
  o             .8                                      cF> 50%
  o
  r\
            1
                                            o
 -e                                   o
            1.6                                                  o
     u)                                                                  o
 +
            1.4
                                      25/o= CF s 45%                          o                             o
            1,2
                              CF <20"/"
            1.0
                  0     50            100               150                     2@                        250           300
                                                Liquid Limit (percent)

Fisure 2 14 varia"f;:l:':;:::;:':tr1{;?:?H:,:#,tr;:,#;ffi;,ri,resses                                            of 50 to 700
           S+-rV ",-) /'lrbo )ao;
                                32
                                                              = Sample not ball-milled   I   EFFECTIVE         CLAY
                          6 28
                          UJ
                                                                                              NORMAT
                                                                                              STRESS
                                                                                                               SIZE
                                                                                                             FRACTION

                                                          It'*" ;)l'
                                                                                                (kPa)            ( s6)
                          LU
                       JCC 24
                       <o
                       ILU
                                                                                               c   100
                                                                                                   400          .< 20
                       oo                               {cr<zox
                                                                                               !   700

                       a                                                                      o    ao
                       ul tLl
                       afr 16                             o
                                                                                              o
                                                                                                   400
                                                                                                   700
                                                                                                            25.< CF.< 45

                       tz
                       z< 12                                                                   a   r00
                                                                                                   400          >,50
                                                                                               I   7m
                       H6
                       atr                                              2sh     cF .< 45%
                          o I                                                                            cF ) 50*
                          E
                          LL    4

                                0
                                     0     40b (,80              1?-O 160 200                      244 280                 320
                                                                   LIQUID LIMIT (%)
              Fig,2. Secant rcsidual friction angle relationships with liquid limit, clay-size {iaction, and ellective nornral strcss

Effect of Ball Milling on Empirical Correlatians                              be seen that the higher the liquid limit and clay-size fraction, the
                                                                              lower the secant residual friction angle. The liquid limit is used as
The torsional ring shear data are used to create the ernpirical
residual friction angle relationships shown in Fig. 2, which means
                                                                              an indicator of clay mineralogy, and thus particle size. As dre
                                                                              particle size decreases, and thus the particle surface area in-
that both ball-milled and nonball-milied materials are included in
the empirical relationships. The asterisks in Fig. 2 indicate the             creases. the liquid limit increases and the drained residual
data points that correspond to maierials that were not ball milled.           strength decreases. However, clay-size liaction remains an impor-
 Each asterisk is placed as close as possible to the data point               tant predictive parameter of residual strength because it indicates
corresponding to the effective normal stress of 100 kPa in each               the quantity of soil particles smaller than 0.002 mm.
clay-size fraction grouping. The ball-milled data in Fig. 2 were                  Activity, defined as the plasticity index divided by the clay-
not weighted dilferently in drawing of the trend lines because in             sire fraction, has been used in previous residual strength correla-
the field heavily overconsolidated clays, mudstones, claystones.              tions, e.9., Skempton (1985). Both the liquid lirnit and activity
and shales are disaggregated by shearing to achieve a residual                provide an indication of clay mineralogy, and thus particle size
strcngth condition and renroltled silt and clay specimens are suf-            and shape. Because liquid limit and activity provide an indication
ficiently disaggregated with the ASTM preparation procedure                   of clay mineralogy, a correlation was sought using both paranr-
(ASTM 1999a). Ball milling simply facilitates the measurement                 eters. It was found that the residual friction angle correlation is
of the residual strength of remolded overconsolidated clays, ntud-            better defined using the liquid limit instead of activity and the
stones. claystones, and shales in the laboratory by expediting the            plastic limit does not have to be nreasured if only the liquid limit
disaggregation process. This results in smaller shear displace-               is used. As a result, the liquid linrit is used to indicate clay min-
ments. and thus tinre, required to achieve a residual srength con-            eralogy in thc empirical relationships instead of activiry.
dition in laboratory ring shear testing on remolded material. Re-                 The correlations in Fig. 2 separate the clay-size fraction into
molded material is prcf'erred as dircus.sed subsequently because of           three groups: less than or equal to 20C.4,, greater than or equal to
the difficulties in otrtaining. trimming. and orienting of shear sur-         25To and less than or equal ta 45a/o, and greater than or equal to
face specimens in direct shear or ring shear devices and the soil             50%. These three groupings are similar to those presented fu
extrusion thal can occur in tests o large shear displacement.                 Lupini et a1. (1981) and Skempton (1985)" which are less than or
    In summary, signiircant disaggregation of the clay particles              cqual to 25%. between 25 and 50o/c, and greater than or equal to
occurs in heavily overconsolidated clays. mudstones, claystones,              50%. The three clay-size fraction groupings were used by Lupini
and shales during field shearing and laboratory testing must simu-            et al. (1981) to distinguish the boundaries between rolling shear.
late this disaggregation or the measured shear strength will over-            transitional shear, and sliding shear behaviors, r-espectively. The
est;mate the field residual shear strength (Stark and Eid 1992t.              data in Fig. 2 conflrm that the effects of particle reorientation are
Skempton ( 1985) and Stark and Eid ( 1992) present case histories             more pronounced in clays with a clay-size fraction of greater than
that verify the importance of disaggregating the clay particles in            or equal to 75Vo and thus the second clay-size fraction group in
laboratory testing of remolded material in predicting the field re-           t-ig. 2 starts at a clay-size fraction of 25%. The dala do not dent-
sidual strength.                                                              onstrilte a distinct change from rolling shear to transitional shear
                                                                              and thus there is a gap in the clay-size groupings between less
                                                                              than or equal to 20To and greater than or equal ta 25'/o in Fig. 2.
Development of Empirical Correlation
                                                                              This is in agreement with Skempton (1985) who concludes that
Fig. 2 presents a revision of the empirical correlation between               the effects of particle reorientation are only observed in clays that
drained secant residual friction angle and soil index properties              have a clay-size fraction af 20-25Y, and thus Skempton (1985)
(liquid limit and clay-size fraction) at eltbctive normal stresses of         also did sot observe a distinct transition between rolling and tran-
100,400, and 700 kPa presented by Stark and Eid (1994). It can                sitional shcar. The shear strength difference between rolling and

580 IJOURNAL OF GEOTECHNICAL AND GEOENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING@ASCE/MAY 2OO5
1t15t202A                                                      Unitied Hazard Tool

U.5. Geological Survey - Earthquake Hazards Program


Unified HazardTool

       Ptease do not use this tool to obtain ground motion parameter vatues for the design code
       reference documents covered by the US. Seismj-c Design Maps:eeblgglg (e.g., the
       lnternational Building Code and the ASCE 7 ar 4L Standard). The values returned by the two
       apptications are not identical.




            lnput


     Edition                                                     SpectnalPeriod

       Conterminous U.S. 2014 (va.0.x)                              Peak Ground Acceleration


     Latitude                                                    Time Horizon
     Decimaldegrees                                              Return period in years

       40.4818                                                      1400


     Longitude
     DecimaI degrees, negative values for western longitudes

\L      t 11
               c403


     Site Class

       760 mls (B/C boundary)




https:/learthquake.usg   s. gov/hazardsi interactive/
'1t15t2020                                                                           Unified Hazard Tool




                  Hazard Curve



                                                    Hazard Curues                                                    Uniform Hazard Response Spectrum




             o                                                                                                          Sy,A*{ kte{e*4"
         !

         4
         c
             c
                  1e-2
                                                                                          @
                                                                                           a
                                                                                          .9
                                                                                                                            0.t          tt flA.dI s {ui.{
              c                                                                           =
                                                                                          E
             o
             lq                                                                           c

                                                                                          (,e
             l
             c
             c                                                                                  0,5
                         Tift Horlzon l@ye.rs
                                                                                                        spe         Period (s): PGA
                                                                                                        Groi        Motion (g):0.4978
                         1.00 S{ond   !Fc!al A.derction                                         0.0

                                      te2                     Le-1            1e+0                    0.0     0.1     c.2   0.3    0.4


                                                          6round Motion (g)                                                       Spectral Period (s)




        View Raw Data




https:/learthqua ke. usgs. gov/hazardslinteractive/                                                                                                          2t2
                                                                             --2 ■ GORDON
                                                                             .:;a
                                                                             I  G     GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                                      ENGINEERING, INC.



       November 16, 2020
       Job No. 224-023-19

       Breen Homes
       1175 Westminster Avenue
       Salt Lake City, Utah 84105

       Attention:          Mr. Adam Breen

       Ladies and Gentlemen :

       Re :      Response to Review No. 2
                 Geologic Hazard Evaluation - Geotechnical Slope Stability Analysis
                 Proposed Residential Structure
                 Lot 27, Oak Vista No. 1 at Suncrest
                 14812 South Oak Bluff Place
                 Draper, Utah

       This letter presents Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc. (G 2) response to the Draper City
       reviews of our geological hazards and geotechnical slope stability study for the above
       referenced property dated June 9, 2020, and revised August 26, 2020. The August 26, 2020
       report was accompanied with our response letter to a technical review provided by Simon
       Associates (SA) dated July 21 , 2020 on the behalf of Draper City (Draper City Case No:
       SUBD-000980-2020).

       This present response letter pertains to a subsequent October 2, 2020 SA review comments to
       our August 26, 2020 revised report and our accompanied response to review submitted on the
       same date . In coordination with this review and response, an October 15, 2020 meeting was
       held at the Draper City Offices to discuss and clarify issues among the professional
       stakeholders to adequately complete the studies for this evaluation .        Present at the
       October 15, 2020 meeting were the following individuals:

                 1.        Keith Collier, Draper City Chief Building Official.
                 2.        Brien Maxfield , Draper City Engineering Department.
                 3.        Jennifer Jastremsky, Draper City Planning Department.
                 4.        Justin Fessler, Breen Homes.
                 5.        Patrick Emery, G2 , Geotechnical Consultant.
                 6.        Gordon Culp, G2 , Geotechnical Consultant.
                 7.        Greg Schlenker, G2 , Geologic Consultant.
                 8.        Alan Taylor (TG), Draper City Geotechnical Consultant.
                 9.        David Simon (SA), Draper City Geologic Consultant.

Gordon Geotechnical Engineering , Inc.                                                          Tel: 801 -32 7-9600
4426 South Century Drive, Suite 100                                                             Fax: 801 -32 7-9601
Salt Lake City, Utah 841 23                                                                www.gordong eotech.com


GEOLOGICAL ENGINEERING                     GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING                 ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
__s.re•e•n•H•o•m-e•s----------------- ~ ■ GORDON
                                                                           G 2
                                                                                  GEOTECHNICAL
  Job No. 224-023-19                                                   ■          ENGINEERING, INC.
  Response to Review No. 2
  November 16, 2020



  The following includes the comments from the October 2, 2020 SA review, and our response
  and actions to the SA review comments:

  SA Comment 1

  SA Recommendations Based on the requirements of the Draper City Geologic Hazard
  Ordinance and the technical documentation provided by G2 , SA recommends Draper City not
  consider the G2 submittals complete from a geologic perspective until the following items are
  adequately addressed .

  1. Figure 4, Lidar Analvsis

     SA recommends Draper City request G2 explain the roughly north-south trending solid black
     line with hachures within site boundaries.

  G 2 Response/Action Comment 1

  Figure 4 amended to include an annotated explanation of the roughly north-south trending solid
  black line that represents the location of the block failure head scarp.

  2. Figure 5 - Site Geologic Map

     a.   Figure 5 is not consistent with the trench log (Figure 6) and the geologic cross-section
          (Figure 7). SA recommends Draper City request G2 address the apparent discrepancies
          between the site geologic map (Figure 5), the trench log (Figure 6), and the geologic
          cross-section (Figure 7).

  G2 Response/Action Comment 2a

  Descriptive annotations from the amended unit descriptions from the trench log in Figure 6 are
  made consistent on Figure 5 and Figure 7.

     b.    Figure 5 depicts a solid black line which , according to the Explanation in Figure 5,
          represents "Geologic Contact" between geologic units Tv-a and Tv-b . Based on the
          information provided by G2 to date, SA understands the contact between geologic units
          Tv-a and Tv-b was only observed in the trench . Consequently, the certainty of the
          location of the contact is confined to the trench .

          The conventional geologic practice is to use a solid line for a "geologic contact" where
          the identity or existence of the contact between the geologic units is certain and the
          location accurate; a dashed line for a geologic contact where the identity or existence of
          the contact between the geologic units is either approximate or inferred, and ; to use a



                                                                                              Page 2
__s.re•e•n•H•o•m•e•s----------------ic ■                                     6   2
                                                                                     GORDON
                                                                                     GEOTECHNICAL
  Job No. 224-023-19                                                     ■           ENGINEERING, INC.
  Response to Review No. 2
  November 16, 2020



         queried, dashed line for a geologic contact where the identity or existence of the contact
         between the geologic units is questionable and the location inferred (FGDC, 2006).

         SA recommends Draper City request:

            i.   G2 clarify how the location of the geologic contact was determined across the
                 property.

            ii. G2 modify the geologic contact to reflect the degree of certainty of the location of
                the geologic contact.

             iii . Clarify whether the data from the test pit excavations and the logs of the test pits
                   were utilized in creating Figure 5.

  G 2 Response/Action Comment 2b

  Contact lines amended on Figure 5 to show westward in the revision of the contacUhead scarp
  boundary in the vicinity of Test Pit 1A from our updated geotechnical study submitted
  August 26, 2020.

     c. Figure 5 depicts two black dashed lines near the east end of the trench which, according
        to the Explanation in Figure 5, represent "Tva Unit Boundaries ( covered). "

         i. The conventional geologic practice is to indicate the material/structure concealing the
             geologic contact (Compton, 1985; FGDC , 2006). SA recommends Draper City
             request G2 indicate the concealing unit(s) (i.e., covered by younger geologic units,
             etc.).

         ii. SA is assuming a "Unit Boundary" is synonymous with a geologic contact. According
             to Figure 6, Log of Trench, G2 obtained a strike1 and dip2 of 326 °, 14°W at about
             station 0+45 feet and a strike and dip of 355°, 18°W at about station 0+58 feet .

             "Tva Unit Boundaries (covered)" shown in Figure 5 are shown according to the strike ,
             not incorporate the dip and topography and therefore do not properly depict the
             orientation of the Tv-a/Tv-b on Figure 5. SA recommends Draper City request G2
             address the apparent discrepancy.

  G 2 Response/Action Comment 2c

  Because the certainty of the projection of the unit contact lines (formerly Tva Unit
  Boundaries 2A and 2B, presently amended Qms(Tv) Unit Boundaries 2A and 2B) away from
  the trench, we shortened these lines on Figure 5 to only show these covered unit boundaries
  where they we observed in the trench.


                                                                                                 Page 3
Breen Homes
                                                                     - ■ GORDON
                                                                     ■ii ENGINEERING, INC.
                                                                     ■G
                                                                          2
                                                                               GEOTECHNICAL
Job No. 224-023-19
Response to Review No. 2
November 16, 2020



   d. SA recommends Draper City request G2 indicate in Figure 5 the source of geologic data
       for off-site areas along Cross -Section A-A ', such that Figure 5 is consistent with
       Figure 3.

G 2 Response/Action Comment 2d

Reference to Beik's, 2005 geologic mapping of the Lehi Quadrangle (presented on Figure 3 and
referenced on Figure 7) added to geologic description on Figure 5.

   e. The logs of Test Pit TP-1A and TP-2A do not appear consistent with the "Geological
      Descriptions" on Figure 5. SA recommends Draper City request G2 address the
      apparent discrepancy.

G 2 Response/Action Comment 2e

The Test Pits TP-1A and TP-2A were performed as part of a geotechnical study without
geological supervision, however the vertical elevation of the encountered bedrock was used to
support our mapping of the site, including our contact line adjustment discussed for response for
Comment 2b.

3. Figure 6, Log of Trench

   a. Figure 6 is not consistent with the site geologic map (Figure 5) and the geologic cross-
      section (Figure 7). SA recommends Draper City request G2 address the apparent
      discrepancies between the site geologic map (Figure 5), the trench log (Figure 6), and
      the geologic cross-section (Figure 7).

G 2 Response/Action Comment 3a

Figure 6 amended with mapping annotations added to logged trench Unit 1 and Units 2;
whereby Unit 1 annotated Tv - Unit 1 to indicate the volcanic block and ash classification of
Unit 1, and Unit 2 annotated Qms(Tv) - Unit 2 to indicate the landslide classification of Unit 2
deposits.

   b. In Comment 2d of the July 21, 2020, SA letter:

       i. SA noted at about Station 0+60, the contact between Units 3 and 2A/2B is undefined,
           and ;

       ii. SA recommended Draper City request G2 address the apparent discrepancy.

       Based on the Explanation in Figure 6, Log of Trench , Units 2A and 2B are "Volcanic
       weathered ash beds, " (presumably Oligocene-Eocene age from Biek, 2005). Based on


                                                                                           Page 4
__s.re•e•n•H•o•m-es-----------------rc:, ■
  Job No. 224 - 023 - 19                                                 ■
                                                                             6   2
                                                                                     GORDON
                                                                                     GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                                     ENGINEERING, INC.
  Response to Review No. 2
  November 16, 2020



         conventional logging of pedogenic horizons (Birkeland, and others, 1991; Birkeland ,
         1999; Mccalpin , 2009), SA has assumed:

         i.    The "squiggly lines" extending vertically down from the top of Units 2A and 2B
               represent pedogenic soil horizons forming on Units 2A and 2B, and ;

         ii. The "squiggly lines" extending vertically down from the top of Unit 3, colluvial deposits
              (presumably Holocene to Pleistocene-age), represent a pedogenic soi l horizon
              forming on Unit 3.

         If SA's interpretation of the G2 Log of Trench is reasonable, G2's response to SA
         Comment 2d , which follows , does not appear reasonable :

               "Not a discrepancy, the contact between the Units 3 and 2A/ 2B was observed to be
               truncated by the overlying 'Soil A-B Horizon with Vertical Structures ' in Figure 6. "

         Soils form on a parent material (i .e., rock, sediments, colluvium, etc.) (Birkeland, and
         others , 1991 ; Birkeland , 1999). From a geologic perspective, SA would expect the
         contact between 2A and 2B to be terminated by a geologic unit, perhaps with a
         pedogenic soil. SA recommends Draper City requests G2:

         i. Explain how a pedogenic soil horizon can terminate a geologic contact, and;

         ii.   Clarify which "Soil A-B Horizon with Vertical Structures" is terminating the contact
               between Units 3 and 2A/2B.

  G2 Response/Action Comment 3b

  Figure 6 amended to illustrate the superposition of Unit 3 over Unit 2A and Unit 2B.

     c. According to Figure 7, Geologic Cross-Section, the subsurface east of the west end of
        the trench is above/within the "Projected Failure Plane and Direction of Block
        Movement." Consequently, SA would anticipate the area above/within the "Projected
        Fa ilu re Plane and Direction of Block Movement," to be "landslide material ," landslide
        deposits , "landslide block," etc.

         Geologic units 2A and 2B, west of the "Deformed Zone" in Figure 6, Log of Trench , are
         shown as "Volcanic weathered ash beds, " not as "landslide material ," landslide deposits ,
         or "landslide block, " etc. SA recommends Draper City request G2 clarify the apparent
         discrepancy.




                                                                                                Page 5
__s.re•e•n•H•o•m-es-----------------~ ■ GORDON
                                                                           G      GEOTECHNICAL
  Job No. 224-023-19                                                   ■          ENGINEERING, INC.
  Response to Review No. 2
  November 16, 2020



  G 2 Response/Action Comment 3b

  Figure 6 amended to label the "Deformed Zone" logged between Unit 1 and Unit 2A on Figure 6
  as "Deformed Zone (Failure Plane)", to illustrate this location on the trench log.

  4. Figure 7, Geologic Cross-Section A-A '

     a. Figure 7 is not consistent with the site geologic map (Figure 5) and the trench log
        (Figure 6). SA recommends Draper City request G2 address the apparent discrepancies
        between the site geologic map (Figure 5), the trench log (Figure 6), and the geologic
        cross-section (Figure 7).

  G 2 Response/Action Comment 4a

  Figure 7 amended to show unit annotations to be consistent with the site geologic map
  (Figure 5) and the trench log (Figure 6).

     b. G2 Figure 7, depicts a "Projected Failure Plane and Direction of Block Movement." The
        "Projected Failure Plane and Direction of Block Movement" northeast of the exposures in
        the G2 trench (Figure 6) was apparently estimated by G2 by evaluation of geologic
        conditions and G2 's slope stability analyses.

         i. The conventional geologic practice is to use a solid line for a "geologic contact" where
             the identity or existence of the contact between the geologic units is certain and the
             location accurate; a dashed line for a geologic contact where the identity or existence
             of the contact between the geologic units is either approximate or inferred, and; to
             use a queried, dashed line for a geologic contact where the identity or existence of
             the contact between the geologic units is questionable and the location inferred
             (FGDC, 2006).

             Consequently, the line depicting the "Projected Failure Plane and Direction of Block
             Movement" below the bottom of the trench on the geologic cross section should
             perhaps be dashed and queried . SA recommends Draper City request G2 modify
             the geologic contact to reflect the certainty of the contact location .

         ii. The area above the Projected Fai lure Plane is labeled as "Ash Deposits (TV) Volcanic
              Rocks of the east Traverse Mountains, undivided. " SA presumes the area above the
              "Projected Failure Plane ," would be "landslide material ," landslide deposits,
              "landslide block," etc. , and designated accordingly. SA recommends Draper City
              request G2 clarify the geologic units above the Projected Failure Plane in Figure.




                                                                                              Page 6
__s.re•e•n•H•o•m-es-----------------r:, ■
  Job No. 224 - 023 - 19                                               ■
                                                                           6   2
                                                                                   GORDON
                                                                                   GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                                   ENGINEERING, INC.
  Response to Review No. 2
  November 16, 2020



  G2 Response/Action Comment 4b

  Figure 7 amended to show dashed line for failure projected failure plane location , and unit
  above the failure plane shown as landslide deposits (Qms(Tv)). annotations to be consistent
  with the site geologic map (Figure 5) and the trench log (Figure 6).

     b. SA recommends Draper City request G2 depict the "Recommended Building Area " (from
        Figure 5), on the Geologic Cross-Section.

  G2 Response/Action Comment 4c

  Figure 7 amended to show the location of the "Recommended Building Location" from Figure 5.

  5. Figure 8, 1958 Aerial Photography and Figure 9, 1962 Aerial Photography

     SA appreciates the 1958 and 1962 aerial photographs G2 included in the August 26 , 2020,
     G2 letter, however, the images do not respond Comment 4 in the July 21 , 2020 , SA letter, in
     which SA recommended Draper City request G2 provide :

         a. The 1958 and 1962 photographs (electronic images being sufficient).

         b. A 1958 and a 1962 photograph depicting the subject property (i.e ., one of each) .

     Consequently, SA recommends Draper City requests G2 provide:

         a. The 1958 and 1962 photographs (electronic images would be adequate).

     b. A 1958 and a1962 photograph depicting the subject property (i .e. , one of each) .

  G2 Response/Action Comment 5

  Electronic copies of the 1958 and 1962 aerial photographs (electronic images) were hand
  delivered to Mr. Simon during the October 15, 2020 meeting .




                                                                                                 Page 7
__s.re•e•n•H•o•m-es-----------------~ ■ GORDON
                                                                            6   2
                                                                                    GEOTECHNICAL
  Job No. 224-023-19                                                    ■           ENGINEERING, INC.
  Response to Review No. 2
  November 16, 2020



  CLOSURE

  If you have any questions or would like to discuss these items further, please feel free to contact
  us at (801) 327-9600.


  Respectfully submitted ,

  Gordon Geotechnical Engineering, Inc.




  Gregory C. Schlenker PhD, P.G.                                    Patrick R. Emery, P.E.
  State of Utah No. 5224720                                         State of Utah No. 7941710
  Senior Geologist                                                  Senior Geotechnical Engineer

  GCS/PRE :sn

  Encl.   Figure 4, LiDAR Analysis
          Figure 5, Site Geologic Map
          Figure 6, Log of Trench
          Figure 7, Geologic Cross-Section A-A '

  Addressee (email only)




                                                                                               Page 8
Greater Than 30 Percent Slopes




Direction of Block Failure Movement




                              FIGURE 4
                           LiDAR ANALYSIS
Lot #27 Oak Vista at Suncrest
Job No. 224-023-19                                                                                              South Wall of Trench                                                                                  West
                                                      STA East (ft)                                               (Bearing 59º NE)                                                                 STA East
                                                          50                          40                      30                           20                            10                          00
                                                           +                          +                       +                            +                             +                            +
                                                 +0
                                                                                                                                                              Thin FeOx Vein
                                                                                                              Soil A-B Horizon
                                                                                                        With Vertical Structures

                                                 -5
                                                                  Weak Soil Horizon                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Line
                                Vertical Scale




                                                 -10
                                                             4                                                                                                                EXPLANATION
                                                                                                                                                                                1   Tv – Tertiary Volcanic Block and Ash
                                                                                                                                                                                        Unit 1, Clay to Sand matrix SM/GM with angular Gravel and Cobbles
                                                                                           B Tw                                                                                         (matrix supported), light yellowish brown, dry, very dense to indurated;
                                                 -15                                               2A                  B Tw                                                             with massive structure (Volcanic block and ash) ...with:

                                                                                                                                                                                               Andestie block
                                                                                                                      Deformed Zone
                                                             2B                                                       (Failure Plane)
                                                                          B Tw
                                                                                                                                                                                               Rhyolite block
                                                                                                                      ~4.0-inch zone of laminate
                                                 -20                                                                  structured Unit 1 material, with
                                                                            STA 46'
                                                                            Strike: 326º                              upper coated with a thin FeOX                             2A      Qms(Tv) – Quaternary Landslide Block Failure Deposit
                                                                            Dip: 14º W                                (iron oxide) vein                                                 Unit 2A - 2B, Silty Clay CH with trace Sand and Gravel and few
                                                                                                                                                                                        Cobbles; reddish brown colored - 2A, and brown colored 2B (dashed
     East                                                                                  South Wall of Trench                                                                 2B      line on log represents diffuse boundary between 2A and 2B); fine to
                          STA East (ft)                                                      (Bearing 59º NE)                                          STA East                         medium Sand, fine and coarse Gravel; light reddish brown; slightly
                              90                                       80                         70                       60                            50                             moist; very stiff; with massive beds (Volcanic weathered ash beds)
                               +                                       +                          +                        +                              +
                                                                                                                                                                                 3      Unit 3, Silty Clay CL, with Gravel and Cobbles; dark brown; dry; stiff;
                                                                             Weak Soil Horizon
                                                                                                                                                                                        sub-angualr particles (Colluvial deposits)
                        -10
                                                            Soil A-B Horizon
                                                                                                                              4                                                  4      Unit 4, Silty Clay CL, with Sand, Gravel and Cobbles; yellowish
                                                      With Vertical Structures
                                                                                                                                                                                        brown; dry; stiff; (Fill deposits)
       Vertical Scale




                                                                                                                                                                  Line           Tw     Thin Wall Soil Sample Location
                        -15                                                                                                                            2A
                                                                                              3                                                                                     B
                                                                                                                                                                                        Bulk Soil Sample Location
                                                                                                                                   2B

                        -20
                                                                                                              2A                                                                                                                        FIGURE 6
                                                                        Dark brown Unit 2B bed                                          STA 58'                                                                                      LOG OF TRENCH
                                                                                                                                        Strike: 355º
                        --25                                                                                                            Dip: 18º W
Analysis By: GCS, Checked By PE:11/6/20
