Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: July 20, 2021
Re: BNSN Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 1.48 acres located on the east side of Costanza Way, at approximately 12775 S. 1600 E. (Costanza Way). The property is currently zoned A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre minimum lot size). The applicant is requesting that a RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft 2  minimum lot size) zone be approved to allow for future development of the property.
The Planning Commission heard this item at their June 24, 2021 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on the application with a 5-0 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment does not adversely affect adjacent property; and
5. Adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment adversely affects adjacent property; and
5. Adequate facilities and services do not exist to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1496 7/14/2021 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 7/13/2021 Cover Memo