                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                            April 14, 2021

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: April 22, 2021

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated State Law Changes Text Amendment
         Application No.: TEXTMAP-0047-2021
         Applicant:         Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:           City Wide
         Request:           Request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of
                            amending multiple portions of Draper City Municipal Code
                            (DCMC) Titles 9 and 17 to address recent changes to Utah State
                            Code.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This City initiated application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the
purpose of amending multiple portions of DCMC Titles 9 and 17 to address recent changes
to Utah State Code.

The 2021 Utah State Legislative Session saw several bills that dealt with land use
regulations and subdivisions. Draper City now has to amend DCMC in order to comply with
the new regulations.




City Initiated State Law Changes                                  App. # TEXTMAP-0047-2021
Text Amendment                                  1
ANALYSIS

Text Amendments. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative
copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are
indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-3-040: Definitions: The definitions for Charter School, Development Agreement,
Family, Lot, Lot Line Adjustment, Parcel, Plat, Nonconforming Structure, Subdivision, and
Conditional Use are proposed for update to align with or match with the definition changes
in Utah State Code, or to reflect changes in Utah State Code pertinent to the particular
definition in the DCMC. A new definition for parcel boundary adjustment is also proposed
to be added as part of Utah State Code changes regarding property boundary adjustments.
Definitions for Low Impact Development and Substantial Evidence are proposed as they align
with other updates to Utah State Code.

DCMC Section 9-5-200: Development Agreements: Proposed updates to this section of
ordinance identify new limitations in Utah State Code as to what can be included in
development agreements. The updates also spell out that when a development agreement
contains terms that are in conflict with the existing land use regulations that review and
approval of the agreement must follow standard procedures for enacting a land use
regulation including a public hearing before the Planning Commission. The City has been
noticing, holding public hearings, and obtaining Planning Commission recommendation on
development agreements which modify land use regulations for a number of years now
and this will not change how development agreements are reviewed.

DCMC Section 9-27-200: Gating: Proposed changes to this section reflect a need to codify the
requirements of fire apparatus access roads contained in Apendix D of the international
fire code in ordinance. While a majority of the changes are proposed to be located in the
streets section of the subdivision ordinance, DCMC Section 17-5-030, the sections of
appendix D of the international fire code regarding gates are proposed to be added to this
section of the DCMC. Specific new proposed regulations include the addition of a minimum
width for gates, the requirement to receive approval of the fire marshal for emergency
opening devices on electric gates, and requirements to comply with American Society for
Testing and Materials (ASTM) standards and Underwriters Laboratories (UL) listings.

DCMC 9-42-040: Standards: The permitted hours of operation for a medical cannabis
pharmacy in the DCMC are proposed to be adjusted to comply with the allowable hours in
Utah State Code from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.

DCMC 17-1-040: Definitions: Proposed changes to the definitions of Lot and Subdivision in the
land development code are proposed to match or reference those in Title 9 and Utah State
Code. A new definition of a Water Conveyance Facility is proposed to be included. Platting
the location of known water conveyance facilities and providing notification to the same



City Initiated State Law Changes                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0047-2021
Text Amendment                                2
when subdivisions or subdivision amendments occur are new requirements in Utah State
Code.

DCMC 17-1-075: Land use exemptions for single-family dwellings: This is a new section of
ordinance being proposed to codify a new state requirement preventing the city from
enforcing updates to the land use regulations that would otherwise affect single-family
dwellings for a period of 10 years from the date that the subdivision plat is recorded. This
section also states updates to the building code, health code, or fire code are exempt from
this provision and clarifies that all other accessory buildings, appurtenances, and
construction that is not part of the single family dwelling is required to meet current
ordinances.

DCMC 17-1-085: Public Notification: The proposed updates to this section reflect the change
in terminology in Utah State Code from the use of the term canal to that of water
conveyance facility. This is also reflected in the proposed update to the definition of a
water conveyance facility in DCMC Section 17-1-040. The proposed changes also bring the
ordinance in-line with the technical updates in state ordinance for noticing the owner of a
water conveyance facility.

DCMC 17-3-030: Preliminary Plat Submittal: The proposed updates to this section include the
removal of the requirement to show the topography of the ground on a preliminary plat,
and include the addition of a new requirement to show all recorded easements, and rights-
of-way located within the plat boundaries. This addition to the requirements it primarily
aimed at ensuring that underground facilities, utilities, and water conveyance facilities are
shown on the plat in accordance with the recent changes to Utah State Code. As DCMC
Section 17-3-030 requires the inclusion of topography on the grading and drainage plan as
part of the application submittal requirements, the requirement to show topography on
the preliminary plat is redundant.

DCMC 17-4-030: Final Plat; Preparation and required information: The proposed updates to
this section include the addition of a new requirement to show all recorded easements,
and rights-of-way located within the plat boundaries. Like the updates to DCMC Section 17-
3-030 for preliminary plats, this addition to the requirements it primarily aimed at ensuring
that underground facilities, utilities, and water conveyance facilities are shown on the final
plat in accordance with the recent changes to Utah State Code.

DCMC 17-5-030 Streets: The purpose of this proposed addition to the ordinance is
essentially to codify the requirements for fire apparatus access roads contained in
Appendix D of the international fire code into the DCMC. Recent changes to Utah State
Code no longer support adoption of the standards by reference, but indicate that the city
must establish standards directly in the ordinance for required infrastructure
improvements for fire department vehicle access and turnarounds. The proposed
ordinance changes include minimum pavement widths based on the length of the road



City Initiated State Law Changes                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0047-2021
Text Amendment                                3
and provide approved designs for turnarounds. Additional regulations apply to no parking
signs in fire lanes and the number of fire apparatus access roads required for individual
developments based on factors such as the number of dwelling units, and size and height
of the buildings serviced by the fire apparatus access road. An Amendment to subsection G
is proposed to permit fire marshal discretion for the allowance of additional single-family
and two-family homes to be built on a single fire apparatus access road in excess of the
maximum of 30 when all homes are equipped with automatic fire sprinklers. This allowable
deviation from standards has been a typical practice of the city in the past when applying
the fire code. In instances where the fire marshal has discretion to allow for a deviation
from the standards, specific criteria for required findings are included in subsection I.

DCMC 17-9-020: Amendment Procedure: Proposed updates include changes to the public
hearing requirements for amended subdivision plats removing any discretion that the
Planning Commission may have had to hold a public hearing instead of a public meeting if
only a public meeting was necessary under the provisions in state statue pursuant to
joining lots, subdividing lots, adjusting lot lines, and internal lot restrictions or other
alterations that do no change the existing boundaries or attributes of lots in a subdivision
not owned by the petitioner or designated as common area. An additional subsection is
proposed to be added to comply with changes in Utah State Code clarifying that the land
use authority is not able to approve subdivision amendments unless the easements owned
by a culinary water authority or sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities within the
subdivision are preserved.

DCMC 17-9-050: Amended Plat Requirements: The proposed text removes an outmoded
requirement that County Recorder’s fee for plat recordation be submitted by the applicant
to Draper City together with the amended plat. This fee is not found within the city’s
consolidated fee schedule and collection of such would not be in line with current
administrative practices.

DCMC 17-9-060: Lot line adjustments, Joining lots, Parcel boundary adjustments, and Boundary
line agreements: This section is proposed to be retitled as Property Boundary Adjustments,
which is the description utilized in the Utah State Code and which better reflects the
content of the section. Included adjustments to the ordinance reflect updates relative to
the change in the definitions of the terms; Lot, Lot Line Adjustment, Parcel, Parcel Boundary
Adjustment, and Plat. Proposed changes also bring the DCMC into compliance with Utah
State Code changes regulating the situations when each type of boundary adjustment or
modification may be used and the applicable requirements for each type. Significant
changes to this section are proposed with respects to lot line adjustments, joining of lots,
and parcel boundary adjustments as Utah State Code now stipulates much of the allowable
review process and deadlines. Additionally, clarifications are made in the proposed text to
note that boundary line agreements that are not subject to land use review shall not be
considered as having land use approval, and that the City may withhold land use approval
from properties subject to a recorded boundary line agreement where the adjustment in



City Initiated State Law Changes                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0047-2021
Text Amendment                                4
the mutual boundary line was not in compliance with applicable land use regulations on
the day it was recorded.

Criteria For Approval. A Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion
of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a
recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the
following factors found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

          2. Text Amendments:
               a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                   of the city's general plan;
               b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                   zoning ordinance;
               c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                   and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
               d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                   of this title or the general plan;
               e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                   and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                   represents an overall community benefit; and
               f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                   professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City



City Initiated State Law Changes                                      App. # TEXTMAP-0047-2021
Text Amendment                                    5
ordinances. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.        The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                   the city's general plan;
         2.        The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                   zoning ordinance;
         3.        The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                   and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
         4.        The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                   part of this title or the general plan;
         5.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                   determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                   represents an overall community benefit; and
         6.        The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                   practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.        The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                   policies of the city's general plan;
         2.        The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements
                   of the zoning ordinance;
         3.        The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
                   request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
                   zoning ordinance;
         4.        The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part
                   of this title or the general plan;
         5.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                   determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does
                   not represent an overall community benefit; and




City Initiated State Law Changes                                       App. # TEXTMAP-0047-2021
Text Amendment                                     6
         6.        The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
                   professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
State Law Changes Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0047-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 14, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City
Initiated State Law Changes Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0047-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 14, 2021,
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated State
Law Changes Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0047-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 14, 2021.




City Initiated State Law Changes                                     App. # TEXTMAP-0047-2021
Text Amendment                                    7
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.
                                      EXHIBIT B
                                 LESISLATIVE DRAFT


9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

…

CHARTER SCHOOLS: Nonsectarian public schools of choice that operate with
freedom from many of the regulations that apply to traditional public schools and
that includes:

 A. An operating charter school;

 B. A charter school applicant that a charter school authorizer approves has its
    application approved by a chartering entity in accordance with Utah Code
    Annotated title 53AG, chapter 1a5, part 53, the Utah Charter Schools
    Authorization Act; andor

 C. An entity whothat is working on behalf of a charter school or approved charter
    applicant to develop or construct a charter school building.

…

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement contract or an amendment to a
written agreement between the city and a developer or subdivider which specifies
the standards and conditions that will govern one or more parties that regulates or
controls the use or development of a property specific area of land. This definition
does not include a bond agreement or an improvement completion assurance.

…

FAMILY: Any of the following who occupy a dwelling unit:

A. One (1) or more persons living alonetogether as a single housekeeping unit;.

B. Two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, and foster
children living together as a single housekeeping unit; and up to two (2) other
persons hired for compensation, such as nannies, servants, gardeners, custodians
or security guards residing on the same premises where the housekeeping unit is
located;
C. Up to five (5) unrelated individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit;
or

D. A group of persons with a disability living in a residential facility for persons
with a disability as permitted by this title.

…

LOT: A separately delineated parcel of real property having a number and
designation shown on a recorded final subdivision plat tract of land, regardless of
any label, that is created by and shown on a final subdivision plat that has been
recorded in the office of the county recorder.

…

LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The relocation of a lot line boundary between two (2)
adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record and which does not create a
new lot or between a lot and adjoining parcels in accordance with Title 17, whether
or not the lots are located in the same subdivision, and with the consent of the
owners of record. This definition does not include new boundary lines that would
create an additional lot, constitute a subdivision, or a boundary line adjustment
made by the Utah Department of Transportation.

…

LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT: Structural or natural engineered systems located
close to the source of storm water that use or mimic natural processes to
encourage infiltration, evapotranspiration, or reuse of the storm water.

…

PARCEL: Any contiguous quantity of real property defined by metes and bounds
which has a separate property identification number according to the records of
the county recorder and is not shown on a recorded final subdivision plat that is
not a lot.

PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: A recorded agreement between owners of
adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary, either by deed or by a boundary
line agreement in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-524, as
amended, if no additional parcel is created and none of the property identified in
the agreement is a lot or if the adjustment is to the boundaries of a single person’s
parcels. This definition does not mean an adjustment that creates an additional
parcel or parcels, constitutes a subdivision, or a boundary line adjustment made by
the Utah Department of Transportation.

...

PLAT: A map or depiction of a subdivision showing thereon the division of a tract or
parcel of land into lots, blocks, streetsAn instrument subdividing property into lots
as depicted on a map or other graphical representation of lands that a licensed
professional land surveyor makes and prepares in accordance with applicable
provisions of state law.

…

STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING: A structure that:

  A. Legally existed before it’s the structure’s current zoning designation; and

  B. Because of subsequent zoning land use ordinance changes, does not conform
     with the setback, height restrictions, or other applicable requirements
     regulations of this title.

…

SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided into
two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either
on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.

  A. "Subdivision" includes:

      A1. The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds
          description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded
          instrument, regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of
          a parcel or lot; and

      B2. Divisions of land for all residential and nonresidential uses, including land
          used or to be used for commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.

  B. "Subdivision" does not include:

      A1. A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties adjusting
          their mutual boundaries if no new lot is created and the adjustment does
     not result in a violation of applicable requirements of this title; orA bona
     fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purposed of joining
     one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of
     unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel
     not the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an
     applicable land use ordinance;

B2. A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the legal
    descriptions of more than one contiguous parcels of property into one
    legal description encompassing all such parcels of property.A boundary
    line agreement recorded with the county recorder’s office between
    owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in accordance
    with Utah Code Annotated, section 10-9a-524, if no new parcel is created;

3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the legal
     descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal description encompassing
     all such parcels;

4.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record joining a lot to a
     parcel;

5.   A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
     properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with Utah
     Code Annotated sections 10-9a-524 and 10-9a-608 if no new dwelling lot
     or housing unit will result from the adjustment and the adjustment does
     not violate any applicable land use ordinance;

6.   A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed or
     other instrument states in writing that the division is in anticipation of
     future land use approvals on the parcel or parcels, does not confer any
     land use approvals, and has not been approved by the city;

7.   A parcel boundary adjustment;

8.   A lot line adjustment;

9.   A road, street, or highway dedication plat;

10. A deed or easement for a road street, or highway proposed; or

11. Any other division of land authorized by law.
…

SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE: Evidence that is beyond a scintilla and a reasonable mind
would accept as adequate to support a conclusion.

…

USE, CONDITIONAL: A mainland use that, because of itsthe unique characteristics
or potential impact of the land use on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or
adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible
only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental
impacts.

…




9-5-200: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:

…

 D. Expiration: A development agreement shall be signed and notarized by all
    parties, and recorded in the relevant county recorder's office within one (1)
    year from the date of City Council approval or it will be void. Prior to the
    expiration of the one-year period, an applicant may submit a written request
    with the community development department, for an extension of up to six (6)
    months. Approval of this extension may only be granted by the City Council
    provided the applicant can meet the requirements for extension under
    section 9-5-030 and demonstrate substantial action toward execution of the
    agreement.Limitations:

    1.   A development agreement under this section may not:

         a. Limit the City’s authority in the future to:

            i. Enact a land use regulation; or

            ii. Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-8-
                84, as amended;
         b. Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land
            within the City in the future; or

         c. Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set
            forth in an existing land use regulation that governs the area subject
            to the development agreement, unless the city council approves the
            development agreement in accordance with the same procedures for
            enacting a land use regulation under Section 10-9a-502, including a
            review and recommendation from the planning commission and a
            public hearing.

    2.   The City may not require a development agreement as the only option for
         developing land within the City.

    3.   To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically address
         a matter or concern related to land use or development, the matter or
         concern is governed by;

         a. Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and

         b. Applicable land use regulations of this Title.

 E. Expiration: A development agreement shall be signed and notarized by all
    parties, and recorded in the relevant county recorder's office within one (1)
    year from the date of City Council approval or it will be void. Prior to the
    expiration of the one-year period, an applicant may submit a written request
    with the community development department, for an extension of up to six (6)
    months. Approval of this extension may only be granted by the City Council
    provided the applicant can meet the requirements for extension under
    section 9-5-030 and demonstrate substantial action toward execution of the
    agreement.




9-27-200: GATING:

…

 C. Subdivisions: Subdivisions, whether commercial or residential, may be
    permitted to include gates across private streets when approved as a
    conditional use in accordance with the provisions set forth in section 9-5-
    080 of this title regarding conditional use permits, and when the applicant can
    demonstrate to the satisfaction of the planning commission that:

    1.   The gates will not block or impede vehicular or pedestrian transportation
         on any public street inside or outside of the subdivision. Gates shall not
         be permitted across any public street;

    2.   Pedestrian access into the subdivision will not be impeded;

    3.   No constructed or city desired trail or public transportation feature will be
         affected by the installation of gates;

    4.   The implementation of gates for the development does not adversely
         affect or inhibit the connectivity of the city's public transportation system;

    5.   The gating of the development will not impose added pressure upon any
         right of way identified within the Draper City master transportation plan
         beyond that which would be reasonably anticipated if the development
         was not gated.

    6.   A homeowners' association adequately established to address the fiscal
         needs of operation and maintenance of the development's gates and
         streets, is or will be formed that will be responsible for any liability,
         maintenance, repairs, and all other responsibility associated with the
         implementation of the gates for the duration of time that the gates are
         present. Should the homeowners' association be found, at any point in
         time, to be unable, unwilling, or derelict in the operation and/or
         maintenance of the streets or gates of the development, the gates shall
         be removed or left in an open position, as determined by the planning
         commission through the revocation of any and all conditional use
         permit(s) pertaining to the gates; and

    7.   All gate development standards, as outlined in subsection D or E, and F of
         this section, can and will be met.

…
 F. Fire Apparatus Access Road Gate Standards: In addition to the applicable
    standards of subsection D or E above, gates securing a fire apparatus access
    road shall also comply with all of the following criteria:

    1.   Where a single gate is provided, the gate width shall be not less than
         twenty (20) feet. Where a fire apparatus road consists of a divided
         roadway, the gate width shall be not less than twelve (12) feet.

    2.   Gates shall be of the swinging or sliding type.

    3.   Construction of gates shall be of materials that allow manual operation by
         one person.

    4.   Gate components shall be maintained in an operative condition at all
         times and replaced or repaired when defective.

    5.   Electric gates shall be equipped with a means of opening the gate by fire
          department personnel for emergency access. Emergency opening devices
          must be approved by the fire marshal.

    6.   Methods of locking shall be submitted for approval by the fire marshal.

    7.   Electric gate operators, where provided, shall be listed in accordance with
         Underwriters Laboratories (UL) standard 325.

    8.   Gates intended for automatic operation shall be designed, constructed
         and installed to comply with the requirements of American Society for
         Testing and Materials (ASTM) specification F2200.




9-42-040: STANDARDS:

B. Hours of Operation: Permitted hours of operation for medical cannabis
pharmacies shall be 97:00 am to 910:00 pm.
17-1-040: DEFINITIONS:

…

LOT: A parcel or tract of land within a subdivision and abutting a public street, or a
private street, which is or may be occupied by one building and the accessory
buildings or uses customarily incident thereto, including such open spaces as are
arranged and designed to be used in connection with the building according to the
zone within which the lot is located tract of land, regardless of any label, that is
created by and shown on a final subdivision plat that has been recorded in the
office of the county recorder.

…

SUBDIVISION: Defined per Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-103(5365) et seq., as
amended. The same as defined in Section 9-3-040 of this code.

…

WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITY: A ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other watercourse
used to convey water used for irrigation or storm water drainage and any related
easement for the ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other watercourse. This definition
does not include a ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other watercourse used to
convey water used for culinary or industrial water, or any federal water project
facility.

…



17-1-075: LAND USE EXEMPTIONS FOR SINGLE FAMILY DWELLINGS:

 A. For a period of ten (10) years after the day on which a subdivision plat is
    recorded, the City may not impose on a building permit applicant for a single-
    family dwelling located within the subdivision any land use regulation that is
    enacted within 10 years after the day on which the subdivision plat is
    recorded.

 B. Subsection A does not apply to changes in the requirements of the applicable
    building code, health code, fire code, or other similar regulations.
 C. All other accessory buildings, appurtenances, and construction on the same
    lot that are not a part of the single-family dwelling must meet current land use
    regulations and ordinances.

 D. After the ten (10) year period following the recordation of the subdivision has
    been reached, construction of and additions to single-family dwellings located
    in the subdivision must meet the then current land use regulations and
    ordinances.




17-1-085: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:

…

 E. Canal Water Conveyance Facility Owner Notice: If a canal's centerline water
    conveyance facility is located entirely or partially within one-hundred feet
    (100') of a subdivision and the centerline is available as as determined using
    information made available to the city as prescribed in Utah Code Annotated
    10-9a-603, as amended, the city shall provide notice of the application to the
    canal water conveyance facility owner or association canal operator within
    twenty (20) days of receiving the complete application receipt. The city shall
    provide the facility owner a twenty (20)- days to comment on the application
    period prior to making a decision on the application. A facility owner’s failure
    to provide comments to the city shall not affect or impair the city’s authority to
    approve the subdivision plat. (Ord. 1075, 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. 1408, 10-15-
    2019; Ord. 1467, 11-17-2020)

…
17-3-030: PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMITTAL:

…

 B. Preliminary Plat: A preliminary plat drawn at a scale not smaller than one
    hundred feet (100') to the inch and prepared, stamped and signed by a
    professional engineer licensed by the state of Utah, showing:

    1.   All facilities within one hundred feet (100') of the subdivision boundaries;

    2.   A north arrow;

    3.   The subdivision name;

    4.   The layout and names and widths of existing and future road rights of
         way;

    5.   A tie to a permanent survey monument at a section corner;

    6.   The boundary lines of the subdivision with bearings and distances;

    7.   The layout and dimensions of proposed lots with lot areas in square feet;

    8.   The location, dimensions and labeling of all other spaces including open
         spaces, parks, trails, and public spaces;

    9.   The location of manmade features including bridges, railroad tracks, and
         buildings;

    10. Topography at two foot (2') intervals All recorded easements and existing
        rights-of-way located within the plat for:

         a.   An underground facility;

         b.   A water conveyance facility; or

         c.   Any other utility facility; and

         d.   Any water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within the
              plat that is not recorded and of which the owner of the land has
              actual or constructive knowledge, including from information made
              available to the owner of the land in the state engineer’s inventory of
              canals or from a surveyor in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
              10-9a-603(6)(c), as amended; and
    11. Ownership of all adjoining tracts of land.

…




17-4-030: FINAL PLAT; PREPARATION AND REQUIRED INFORMATION:

…

 R. The final plat shall show all recorded easements and existing rights-of-way
    located within the plat for:

    1.   An underground facility;

    2.   A water conveyance facility;

    3.   Any other utility facility; and

    4.   Any water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within the plat
         that is not recorded and of which the owner of the land has actual or
         constructive knowledge, including from information made available to the
         owner of the land in the state engineer’s inventory of canals or from a
         surveyor in accordance with Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-603(6)(c), as
         amended.

…




17-5-030: STREETS:

…

 G. Subdivision Access And Dead End Streets: Dead end streets or subdivisions
    with one access point shall serve no more than thirty (30) single-family units,
    two-family units, and townhouse units, or up to one hundred (100) multi-family
    units, not including townhouse dwellings. Deviations from the limitations to
    the number of single-family and two-family units may be permitted under the
    provisions of 17-5-030(H)(15) below. The provision of a stub road which will
   eliminate the dead end in the future shall not permit additional units.
   Additional dwelling units may be served by a dead end street at such time as
   its dead end nature is eliminated. On such temporary dead end streets, a
   temporary turnaround area and recordable easement shall be provided at the
   end of the dead end street and shall remain and be available for public use so
   long as the dead end exists. Improvements shall be installed in temporary
   turnaround areas subject to engineering standards and the International Fire
   Code. Access points and dead end streets shall comply with all applicable
   codes. (Ord. 1009, 9-4-2012; amd. Ord. 1332, 7-10-2018; Ord. 1454, 11-10-
   2020)



H. Fire Apparatus Access Roads: Fire apparatus access is essential to successful
   fire-fighting and rescue operations. Fire department vehicles vary widely in size
   and operational needs and must be able to maneuver into position to properly
   undertake their fire-fighting activities. The needs of the city will therefore vary
   with the equipment used include those from mutual-aid companies that may
   respond from outside the city. Access roads must be designed to provide the
   fire department with the required access to all structures on a site.

   1.   All fire apparatus access roads must meet the requirements of this
        section and applicable requirements of international fire code, including
        appendix D.

   2.   Facilities, buildings or portions of buildings hereafter constructed shall be
        accessible to fire department apparatus by way of an approved fire
        apparatus access road with an asphalt, concrete or other approved
        driving surface capable of supporting the imposed load of fire apparatus
        weighing up to 75,000 pounds.

   3.   Where a fire hydrant is located on a fire apparatus access road, the
        minimum road width shall be twenty-six (26) feet, exclusive of shoulders.

   4.   Fire apparatus access roads shall not exceed ten (10) percent in grade,
        except as specifically modified elsewhere in this title, or as approved by
        the fire marshal.
5.   The minimum turning radius for fire apparatus access shall be twenty-
     eight (28) feet, unless a different radius is approved by the fire marshal.

6.   Dead end fire apparatus access roads shall meet the following minimum
     paved widths and include turnarounds according to the following:

     a.   For fire apparatus access roads up to one-hundred fifty (150) feet in
          length a minimum paved width of twenty (20) feet is required.

     b.   For fire apparatus access roads between one-hundred fifty-one (151)
          feet and five-hundred (500) feet in length a minimum paved width of
          twenty (20) feet and a minimum one-hundred twenty (120) foot
          hammerhead, sixty (60) foot “Y”, or ninety-six (96) foot diameter cul-
          de-sac are required. See Figure 17-5-1.

     c.   For fire apparatus access roads between five-hundred one (501) feet
          and seven-hundred fifty (750) feet in length a minimum paved width
          of twenty-six (26) feet and a minimum one-hundred twenty (120) foot
          hammerhead, sixty (60) foot “Y”, or ninety-six (96) foot diameter cul-
          de-sac are required. See Figure 17-5-1.

     d.   For fire apparatus access roads over seven-hundred fifty (750) feet in
          length special approval of the fire marshal is required.

7.   If a fire apparatus access road is gated, the road and gate shall comply
     with the requirements of subsection 9-27-200 of this title.

8.   Fire apparatus access roads shall be marked with permanent NO
     PARKING-FIRE LANE signs complying with Figure 17-5-2. Signs shall have a
     minimum dimension of twelve (12) inches wide by eighteen (18) inches
     high and have red litters on a white reflective background.

9.   Fire lane signs shall be posted on both sides of fire apparatus access
     roads that are twenty (20) to twenty-six (26) feet wide. Fire lane signs
     shall be posted on one side of fire apparatus access road more than
     twenty-six (26) feet wide and less than thirty-two (32) feet wide.

10. Buildings or facilities exceeding thirty (30) feet or three (3) stories in
    height shall have not fewer than two means of fire apparatus access for
    each structure.
11. Buildings or facilities having a gross building area of more than 62,000
    square feet shall be provided with two separate and approved fire
    apparatus access roads, except as provided in 17-5-030(H)(11)(a) below.

    a.   Projects having a gross building area of up to 124,000 square feet
         that have a single approved fire apparatus access road where all
         buildings are equipped throughout with approved automatic fire
         sprinkler systems.

12. Where two fire apparatus access roads are required, they shall be placed
    a distance apart equal to not less than on half of the length of the
    maximum overall diagonal dimension of the lot, parcel, or area to be
    served, measured in a straight line between accesses.

13. Where the vertical distance between the grade plane and the highest roof
    surface exceeds 30 feet, approved aerial fire apparatus access roads shall
    be provided. For purposes of this section, the highest roof surface shall
    be determined by measurement to the eave of a pitched roof, the
    intersection of the roof to the exterior wall, or the top of parapet walls,
    whichever is greater.

    a.   Aerial fire apparatus access roads shall have a minimum
         unobstructed width of twenty-six (26) feet, exclusive of shoulders, in
         the immediate vicinity of the building or portion thereof.

    b.   One or more of the required access routes meeting this condition
         shall be located not less than fifteen (15) feet and not greater than
         thirty (30) feet from the building, and shall be positioned parallel to
         one entire side of the building. The side of the building on which the
         aerial fire apparatus access road is positioned shall be approved by
         the fire marshal.

    c.   Overhead utility and power lines shall not be located over the aerial
         fire apparatus access road or between the aerial fire apparatus road
         and the building. Other obstructions shall be permitted to be placed
         with the approval of the fire marshal.
14. Multi-Family residential projects having more than one-hundred (100)
    dwelling units shall be equipped throughout with two separate and
    approved fire apparatus access roads.

15. Developments of one- or two-family dwellings where the number of
    dwelling units exceeds thirty (30) shall be provided with two (2) separate
    and approved fire apparatus access roads, except as provided in
    subsection 17-5-030(H)(15)(a) or (b) below.

    a.   With approval of the fire marshal, where there are more than thirty
         (30) dwelling units on a single public or private fire apparatus access
         road and all dwelling units are equipped throughout with an
         approved automatic fire sprinkler system in accordance with
         international fire code section 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3,
         access from two directions shall not be required.

    b.   The number of dwelling units on a single fire apparatus access road
         shall not be increased unless fire apparatus access roads will connect
         with future development, as determined by the fire marshal.
Figure 17-5-1
Figure 17-5-2




 I. In instances where fire marshal has discretion to allow a deviation from the
    standards for fire apparatus access roads in 17-5-030(H) or the gating
    requirements of fire apparatus access roads in 9-27-200(F), the fire marshal
    may authorize a deviation upon finding all of the following:

    1.   The deviation complies with the public safety objectives of the city;

    2.   The proposed deviation will not negatively impact traffic safety;

    3.   The access width of the roadway is sufficient to provide necessary
         emergency vehicle access to the property;

    4.   The type of road surfacing will not negatively impact the accessibility to the
         property by fire and emergency vehicles; and

    5.   The deviation in design will not inhibit the maneuverability or operation of
         anticipated emergency response apparatus or fire department vehicles of
         Draper City or those of mutual-aid organizations from neighboring
         communities or agencies.
17-9-020: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:

 A. Planning Commission Recommendation: Upon receipt of a petition to vacate,
    alter, or amend a subdivision plat, the matter shall be referred to the Planning
    Commission for consideration.

 B. Public Hearing: Except as otherwise provided in subsection C of this section,
    the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed plat
    amendment within forty five (45) days of receipt of the petition. Notice of the
    public hearing shall be given as provided in section 17-9-030 of this Code.

 C. Waiver Of Public Hearing: Where the plat amendment process is initiated by
    petition, the Planning Commission, in its discretion, may waive the
    requirement of a public hearing if:

    1.   The proposed plat change does not include the vacation, alteration or
         amendment of a public street;

    2.   No owner within the plat notifies the City of their objection, in writing,
         within ten (10) days of the mailed notice provided under section 17-9-
         030 of this chapter; and

    3.   All owners within the plat have signed the revised plat consenting to the
         proposed amendment.

 D. Vacating A Public Street, Right-Of-Way Or Easement: A petition under this
    section that proposes to vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-way or
    easement shall comply with State Code.

 E. Public Hearing Not Required: Not withstanding sections B and C in this section,
    the city may consider an owner's petition to vacate or amend a subdivision
    plat at athe public hearing requirements do not apply and the planning
    commission may consider an owners petition for a subdivision amendment at
    a public meeting, subject to notice being given to adjacentadjoining property
    owners per section 17-9-030 of this code, if the petition seeks to:

    1.   Join two or more of the petitioner fee owner's contiguous lots as outlined
         in 17-9-060 of this chapter;
    2.   Subdivide one or more of the petitioning fee owner's lots, if the
         subdivision will not result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a
         development condition;

    3.   Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an adjoining
         parcels if the fee owners of each of the adjoining lots or parcelsproperties
         join in the petition, regardless of whether the lots or parcelsproperties are
         located in the same subdivision, as outlined in 17-9-060 of this chapter;

    4.   On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot
         restriction imposed by ordinance; or

    5.   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change the existing boundaries or
         other attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not:

         a. Owned by the petitioner; or

         b. Designated as a common area.

 F. The city may not approve a petition for a subdivision amendment unless the
    amendment identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary
    water authority or sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within
    the subdivision.




17-9-050: AMENDED PLAT REQUIREMENTS:

Prior to the land use authority's approval of a petition or proposal to amend a
subdivision plat, the petitioner or sponsor shall deliver to the City an amended plat
map and supporting information in compliance with the requirements of
section 17-4-030 of this title. The amended plat map shall be accompanied by the
appropriate recording fee to provide for recordation of the map with the Salt Lake
and/or Utah County Recorder. Any plat amendment that creates any property to be
dedicated or otherwise given to the City for right-of-way or other public use shall
also comply with the terms of section 17-4-100 of this title regarding the payment
of Property Tax.
17-9-060: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS, JOINING LOTS,
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS, AND BOUNDARY LINE
AGREEMENTSPROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS:

 A. Lot Line Adjustments: Consenting owners of adjoining properties in a
    subdivision may relocate the mutual property boundary line between their
    adjoining lots pursuant to this section.To make a lot line adjustment, or to join
    a petitioner fee owner's contiguous lot(s) with a petitioner fee owner’s
    contiguous parcel, a property owner shall:

    1.   The Zoning Administrator is the designated Land Use Authority for lot
         line adjustments.Amend the subdivision plat according to the provisions
         of this chapter;

    2.   Applications shall:

         a.   Be filed jointly by the owners of both subject properties.

         b.   Include the legal description of each original property.

         c.   Include the proposed adjusted legal description of each property as
              proposed. Legal descriptions shall be prepared by a certified
              surveyor or engineer.Execute a boundary line adjustment through a
              quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement; and

    3.   The Zoning Administrator shall hold a public meeting following proper
         notice to all owners of property adjacent to the subject properties and
         according to Utah Code and other applicable sections of this Code.

    43. The Zoning Administrator shall approve and provide a notice of approval
        to the applicants for applications that comply with the following
        requirements:

         a.   No new dwelling or lot or housing unit will result from
              the adjustment.

         b.   The properties as proposed will comply with this Code.Record the
              amended plat and quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the
              office of the county recorder.
     4. The joining of a lot or lots to a parcel does not constitute a subdivision as to
         the parcel or subject the parcel to other sections of Title 17.

     5.     The property owners that are a party to the application shall record with
            the Salt Lake County Recorder's Office within thirty (30) days of the
            issuance of the notice of approval the notice of approval and a valid
            document of conveyance that results in the property boundaries
            described by the legal descriptions submitted with the lot
            line adjustment application.

B. Joining Lots: A fee owner may join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee
   owner's contiguous lots as long as the joined lots comply with this Code. The
   Zoning Administrator is the designated Land Use Authority for joining lots by
   following the plat amendment process in Title 17.

C. Parcel Boundary Adjustments And Boundary Line Agreements: A
   parcel boundary adjustment or boundary line agreement subject to Utah Code
   Annotated 10-9a-523 and 10-9a-524, as amended, shall not require review by
   the City. To make a parcel boundary adjustment, a property owner shall
   execute a boundary adjustment through a quitclaim deed or boundary line
   agreement and record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement with
   the county recorder.

1.        A Parcel boundary adjustment is not subject to the city’s review unless any of
          the subject parcels contain a dwelling unit.

2.        Parcel boundary adjustments that require review by the city shall:

            a.   Be filed jointly by the owners of both subject properties.

            b.   Include a boundary line agreement that complies with the provisions
                 of Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-524(2), as amended.

3.        Within 14 days from the receipt of a complete application for a parcel
          boundary adjustment, the zoning administrator or designee shall review and
          approve applications that comply with the following requirements:

            a.   No additional parcels will result from the adjustment.

            b.   Existing dwelling unit(s) and other structures on the parcel(s) will
                 maintain compliance with the current setbacks for the zoning district
             in which they are located. Where existing dwelling unit(s) or
             structures are nonconforming as to current setback requirements,
             the amount or degree of nonconformity will not increase as a result
             of the parcel boundary adjustment.

        c.   The proposed parcel boundary adjustment will not create a violation
             of any land use ordinance or other city ordinances.

4.   If the zoning administrator or their designee finds that an application is
     deficient or if additional information is required to approve the boundary
     line agreement, they shall provide written notice to the property owners of
     the deficiency or additional information required within the 14-day
     timeframe from the date of the initial submittal. Such notice shall include the
     following:

        a.   A description of the specific deficiency or additional information
             required.

        b.   A statement that the boundary line agreement will be approved
             upon the correction of the deficiency or submission of the additional
             information.

        c.   A statement that failure to correct the deficiency or provide the
             additional information may result in denial and/or expiration of the
             application.

5.   Upon receipt of the information requested in subsection 4, the zoning
     administrator or designee shall review the complete application according to
     the provisions of subsection 3.

6.   Upon approval of the application, the zoning administrator or designee shall
     provide a notice of approval to the property owners within 14 days of the
     receipt of the application.

7.   The property owners that are a party to the application shall record with the
     county recorder within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the notice of
     approval the notice of approval together with a quitclaim deed or boundary
     line agreement that results in the property boundary adjustment described
     by the proposed legal descriptions submitted with the parcel boundary
     adjustment application.
8.        The zoning administrator or designee shall deny an application that does not
          comply with the requirements of subsection (C)(3) above. The written notice
          of denial shall be sent to the applicants in the same 14-day timeframe from
          the date of the submittal of a complete application.

D. Boundary Line Agreements: Boundary line agreements are subject to the
   requirements of Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-524, as amended.

     1.     Boundary line agreements that are not subject to review of the city shall
            not be considered as having land use approval.

     2.     In accordance with Utah Code Annotated subsections 10-9a-523(5), the
            city may withhold approval of any land use application submitted for
            property that is the subject of a recorded boundary line agreement or
            other document used to adjust a mutual boundary line if the city
            determines that the lots or parcels, as adjusted by the boundary line
            agreement or other document used to adjust the mutual boundary line,
            are not in compliance with the city’s land use regulations in effect on the
            day on which the boundary line agreement or other document used to
            adjust the mutual boundary line is recorded.

            a.   Land Use applications where approval has been withheld under this
                 subsection may proceed upon the subsequent recordation of a
                 boundary line agreement, including an amended subdivision plat
                 when applicable, that brings the lots or parcels into compliance with
                 city code.

            b.   Land use applications will still be subject to otherwise applicable
                 expiration dates if review and approval of necessary boundary line
                 agreement(s) is not diligently pursued by the applicant.
