NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA September 7, 2021 at 5:30 PM
1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020 Council Chambers 5:30 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Presentation: Update on the Point - Alan Matheson a 2. Discussion: Short term rentals - David Dobbins a 3. Council/Manager Reports a 4. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance 3. Proclamation: Welcoming Week September 10-19, 2021 a 4. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 5. Consent Items a. Approval of Resolution #21-45 Appointing Jason Wiggins as a member of the Draper City Historic Preservation Commission.  6. Action Item: Resolution #21-46 A resolution of the Draper City Council amending the Draper City Police pay plan. Staff report by David Dobbins. a 7. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1499 An ordinance amending Title 9 of Draper City Municipal Code  in order to amend and enact regulations pertaining to exemptions from the title, definitions, administrative and development review procedures, second kitchens in single-family dwellings, and accessory dwelling units. This application is known as the City Initiated Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Text Amendment. (Legislative Action) Staff report by Todd Draper and Jennifer Jastremsky.  a 8. Action Item: Resolution #21-47 A resolution of the Draper City Council pertaining to the adoption of a temporary policy for the procedural implementation of Accessory Dwelling Unit permits created by changes to Title 9 of the Draper City Municipal Code through the passage of Draper City Ordinance #1499. Staff report by Todd Draper and Jennifer Jastremsky a 9. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held September 7, 2021 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News . Date Posted: September 3, 2021 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.