                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                          June 1, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: June 24, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:     Olson Residence– Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0062-2021
        Applicant:        Jarod Hall
        Project Location: 13764 S & 13770 S Fort Street
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² lot minimum size) Zone
        Acreage:          1.84 Acres (Approximately 80,150 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment in the RA1 zone
                          regarding a rezone on the property from the RA1 zoning designation
                          to the RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum size)
                          zoning designation. The applicant would like to create a 20,000 ft² lot
                          for the existing home.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 1.84
acres located on the west side of Fort Street, at approximately 13764 S & 13770 S Fort Street
(Exhibit C). The properties are currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning
Map Amendment be approved to rezone the 13764 S property from the RA1 zoning designation
to the RA2 zoning designation as the applicant would like to create a 20,000 ft² lot for the
existing home.

The single family home on the subject properties was built in approximately 1971. The two
lots were subdivided illegally, and the applicant has submitted this application to attempt
to correct the error to ensure that both properties will have the correct minimum lot size
for the zone.




Olson Residence                                                      App. # TEXTMAP-0062-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA1 zoning classification, supporting approximately
one dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit E). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The RA1 zoning abuts the subject property on the north
and east, and RA2 abuts on the south and west.



Olson Residence                                                       App. # TEXTMAP-0062-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     2
Zoning Map Amendment.
The two subject properties are 1.41 and 0.43 acres respectively. The house is on the
smaller property. The smaller of the two properties will be entirely rezoned to RA2, the
majority of the larger will remain RA1. The applicant has submitted a legal description for
the rezoned area and it will extend approximately 15 feet into the larger subject property.
The smaller property will have the rear property line adjusted to match the newly rezoned
area (Exhibit F).

Since the properties are parcels and not lots within a subdivision, the property line can be
adjusted with a Boundary Line Adjustment process, and will not require a subdivision.

Criteria For Approval.
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Olson Residence                                                       App. # TEXTMAP-0062-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     3
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation as are follows:

   1.   That DCMC Section 9-5-060(E) provides for and outlines the process for amending
        the zoning text and maps of the DCMC.
   2.   That this map amendment does not compromise any of the five factors listed in
        DCMC Section 9-5-060(E)(1).

The findings for a negative recommendation as are follows:

   1.   That this map amendment compromises one or more of the five factors listed in
        DCMC Section 9-5-060(E)(1).



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Olson Residence Zoning Map Amendment , as requested by Jarod Hall,
for application TEXTMAP-0062-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated June 1, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Olson Residence Zoning Map Amendment , as requested by
Jarod Hall, for application TEXTMAP-0062-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 1, 2021 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…




Olson Residence                                                  App. # TEXTMAP-0062-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  4
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Olson Residence Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Jarod Hall for
application TEXTMAP-0062-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated June
1, 2021.




Olson Residence                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0062-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                5
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No Comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including but not
      limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm
      water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;

       Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended
       to serve this property.

           a. The increase in density from one residential unit per acre zoning to approximately
              two units per acre constitutes a minor increase in the amount of traffic to and from
              the subject area. One single family residential structure and associated
              agricultural uses constitutes up to nine daily trips and two peak hour trips, based
              on industry standard vehicle trip tables. Typically, in the RA2 zone, residential
              density is approximately doubled. However, with the small acreage of this rezone,
              an existing home exists on the lot and no additional traffic is projected. The
              fronting street is Fort Street.

           b. Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on Fort Street.
              Access locations will be required to meet Draper City Standards as outlined in our
              Master Transportation Plan.

           c. There are not existing storm drainage facilities available to the subject area.
              Provisions for onsite storm drainage will need to be addressed with any
              subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply with the provisions of the
              development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.

           d. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
              subdivision application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District
              that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
           e. Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision application
              will require a commitment to serve from the WaterPro that facilities are adequate
              to provide service for the proposed uses.

           Accordingly, we will provide comments relative to the potential construction activities
           when the appropriate application is received. Thank you for the opportunity to review
           the Zone Amendment Request.


Fire Division Review.

   1. No Comments.
           EXHIBIT B
LEGAL DESCRIPTION TO BE REZONED
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
     EXHIBIT F
AREA TO BE REZONED
