Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Travis DeJong
CC:  Date: November 16, 2021
Re: Providing Local Consent for a Limited-Service Alcohol License for Nawab's Indian Restaurant LLC Comments: Nawab's Indian Restaurant LLC located at 153 W 12300 S Suite 7 is seeking local consent from Draper City to obtain a limited-service alcohol license from the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control (DABC).
Nawab's Indian Restaurant LLC has provided:
a floor plan of the premises showing where alcohol is to be sold, consumed, and stored;
signed consent form stating that the premises will permit any authorized representative from DABC, Draper City, or the Salt Lake County Health Department unrestricted right to enter the premises;
a copy of dram shop insurance coverage;
a copy of a surety bond payable to the DABC; and
a copy of a Bureau of Criminal Identification background check.
Nawab's Indian Restaurant LLC is also applied for and is actively working towards obtaining a business license for the aforementioned location. The findings are as follows: According to DCMC Section 6-4-040:
b. A beer-only restaurant, full-service restaurant, or limited-service restaurant license shall not be granted to any applicant for any location situated within three hundred feet (300') of any community location as measured from the nearest patron entrance of the proposed restaurant by following the shortest route of ordinary pedestrian travel to the property boundary of the community location or within two hundred feet (200') of the proposed restaurant measured in a straight line from the nearest patron entrance of the proposed restaurant to the nearest property boundary of the community location.
Nawab's Indian Restaurant LLC sits more than 300 ft from the nearest community location taking the shortest pedestrian route.
Nawab's Indian Restaurant LLC sits more than 200 ft from the nearest community location measured by a straight line.
According to DCMC Section 6-4-050:
c. Restriction On Licenses: There shall be no limitation on the number of full-service or limited-service, or beer-only restaurant licenses granted by Draper City. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PowerPoint showing proximity maps and DCMC requirements 11/10/2021 Cover Memo Packet of Material showing: retail business license; proximity maps; floor map of business displaying service, storage, and Consumption areas, liquor liability insurance, DABC bond. 11/10/2021 Cover Memo