NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA October 19, 2021 at 6:30 PM
1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020 Council Chambers 6:30 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM   BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance 3. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 4. Consent Items a. Approval of Resolution #21-54 A resolution changing the terms of the members of the Draper City Historic Preservation Commission.  b. Approval of Ordinance #1504 An ordinance amending Title 12 of the Draper City Municipal Code that aligns the city code with the National Flood Insurance Program, operated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, requirements that identify the current flood insurance rate maps. 5. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1503 On the request of Adam Lankford, representing Wasatch Residential Group for a Text Amendment to add Medical Services as a permitted use in the CSD-DD (Day Dairy Commercial Special District) zone. This application is known as the Day Dairy Medical Use Text Amendment. The zone is located at approximately 527 East 12300 South.  Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky. a 6. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held October 19, 2021 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News . Date Posted: October 15, 2021 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.