                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                      November 8, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: November 18, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     1521 E. Pioneer Rd. – Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0163-2021
        Applicant:        Andrea Wright, representing Cortney and Cary Nelson
        Project Location: 1521 E. Pioneer Rd.
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft2 min. lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.86 Acres (Approximately 37,461 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment in the RA1
                          zone regarding changing the zoning designation from RA1 to R3
                          (Residential, 13,000 ft2 min. lot size) zone.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
0.86 acres located on the north side of Pioneer Rd., at approximately 1521 E. Pioneer Rd.
(Exhibit C). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning
Map Amendment be approved to change the zoning designation from RA1 to R3 to allow
for future subdivision of the property.

The subject property consists of a single parcel which contains a single family home on the
south of the property near Pioneer Rd. The existing home was originally built in 1928.
There is a right-of-way across the western portion of the parcel which provides access to
the Deer Hollow Addiction Treatment Center facility located to the north of the subject
property.




1521 E. Pioneer Rd.                                             App. # TEXTMAP-0163-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA1 zoning classification, supporting approximately
one dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit E). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The RA1 zone abuts the subject property on the north, and
northwest. RA2 zoning abuts on the east and west as well as across Pioneer Rd. to the
south. A short distance to the northwest of the subject property the CC (Community
Commercial Zoning) can be found.

Zoning Map Amendment. The proposal to rezone the property to R3 in order to permit the
potential future subdivision of the property is in line with the general plan land use map



1521 E. Pioneer Rd.                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0163-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    2
designation for the neighborhood area north of Pioneer Rd. The general plan land use map
designation of Residential Medium Density supports 2-4 dwelling units per acre. The
current RA1 zoning designation would not be considered to be consistent with the general
plan land use map for the neighborhood area north of Pioneer Rd. The applicant is looking
to rezone the property for the purpose of subdividing the property in order to build a new
home behind the existing home (Exhibit F).

Criteria For Approval. A Zoning Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in
making a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider
the following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Zoning



1521 E. Pioneer Rd.                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0163-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     3
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                overlay zone;
        4.      The proposed amendment does not adversely affect adjacent property; and
        5.      Adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including,
                but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
                protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
                wastewater and refuse collection.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
                applicable overlay zone;
        4.      The proposed amendment adversely affects adjacent property; and
        5.      Adequate facilities and services do not exist to serve the subject property,
                including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
                and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
                and wastewater and refuse collection.

MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the 1521 E. Pioneer Rd. Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Andrea




1521 E. Pioneer Rd.                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0163-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    4
Wright, representing Cortney and Cary Nelson, application TEXTMAP-0163-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 8,
2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the 1521 E. Pioneer Rd. Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Andrea Wright, representing Cortney and Cary Nelson, application TEXTMAP-0163-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
November 8, 2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the 1521 E. Pioneer Rd. Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Andrea
Wright, representing Cortney and Cary Nelson, application TEXTMAP-0163-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 8,
2021.




1521 E. Pioneer Rd.                                          App. # TEXTMAP-0163-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  5
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.


       1.     No additional comments provided.


Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.


       1.     The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including
              but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
              schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse
              collection;


              Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities
              intended to serve this property.


              a. The increase in density from one residential unit per acre zoning to
                 approximately two units per acre constitutes a minor increase in the amount
                 of traffic to and from the subject area based on the subject parcel. One single
                 family residential structure and associated agricultural uses constitutes up to
                 nine daily trips and two peak hour trips, based on industry standard vehicle
                 trip tables. With the acreage of this rezone, an existing home exists on the lot
                 and no additional traffic is projected. In the future three or so vehicles could
                 be added to the surrounding streets if the parcel were to be subdivided. The
                 anticipated increase in traffic is well below the 100 peak hour trips that would
                 require a Traffic Impact Study.


              b. Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on Pioneer Road,
                 a major collector. Access locations will be required to meet Draper City
                 Standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan.


              c. There are no existing storm drain facilities fronting the property or nearby that
                 are feasible in which to connect. Provisions for onsite storm drainage will need
                 to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply
                   with the provisions of the development requirements within the Draper City
                   Municipal Code.


               d. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
                  subdivision application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer
                  District that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.


               e. Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision
                  application will require a commitment to serve from the WaterPro that
                  facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.


Building Division Review.


       1.      No additional comments provided.


GIS Division Review.


       1.      No additional comments provided.


Fire Division Review.


       1.      No additional comments provided.
                                     EXHIBIT B
                                 LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Parcel 28-28-326-016:

BEG S 89°47'14" E 54.94 FT FR CEN OF SW 1/4 OF SEC 28, T 3S, R 1E, S L M; S 89°47'14" E
102.06 FT; N 00°24'16" E 358.95 FT; S 89°20' W 130 FT; S 0°24'44" W 137 FT; N 89°20' E
22.56 FT; S 0°59'44" E 220.35 FT TO BEG. LESS ST 0.86 AC M OR L.
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
            EXHIBIT F
APPLICANTS APPLICATION RESPONSES
Zoning Map Amendment:
  1.  The requested zoning designation is R3.
  2.  I would like to subdivide the current lot in order to build a new home in back similar in
     size to the other homes surrounding this parcel to the east.
  3. The requested zoning designation is harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development because of the size of homes/land surrounding the existing property based
     a ½ mile radius from the subject property.
  4. Yes. Roads surround the home and utilities are currently present as a 2,023 s/f currently
     sits on the subject property.
  5. Yes. The proposed zoning designation is currently consistent with the City’s General
     Plan because the request maintains single-family use, similar to all other properties
     surrounding the subject property.
