                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 April 13, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 22, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:     Quality Diamond Tools 2 – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-013-2021
        Applicant:        Jim and Lois Duncan
        Project Location: 12138 S 800 E
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum)
                          Zone
        Acreage:          0.94 Acres (Approximately 40,946 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit for a home office located within a detached accessory
                          structure, with employees, storage, and business vehicles on an
                          approximately 0.94 acre site in the RA2 zone.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.94 acres located at approximately 12138 South 800 East (Exhibit B). The
property is currently zoned RA2. The applicants, business partners who are also husband
and wife, are requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to
allow for the home based business on the property.

The property includes two separate parcels, which pre-date the incorporation of the City in
1978. There is a single-family home on the front parcel built in 1978, and two detached
accessory structures on the rear parcel built in 1982 and 1987. Both properties have been
historically considered one property and used in conjunction with each other. The
applicants obtained building permits to add a bathroom into one of the detached



Quality Diamond Tools 2                                           App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         1
structures and re-roof it in 2019.

Quality Diamond Tools is an existing business within the City and has been located at 447
East 11800 South (Kimballs Lane). Based on City records, a business license was issued for
the home based office, but no Conditional Use Permit was ever issued for the employees,
delivery traffic, or storage. The applicants have indicated that a storage unit at an off-site
location was utilized for much of the storage while at the old business location. The
applicants are looking to relocate the business to the subject property.

The applicants previously applied for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for this
property for the same business (2020 Application). That application was denied by the
Planning Commission at their June 11, 2020 meeting with the following findings:

    1. Based on the inability to control delivery vehicles that would comply with conditions;
    2. Based on the use of a forklift; and
    3. Based on the intensity of use of the business.

The applicant appealed the Planning Commission denial of the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer heard the appeal on
August 10, 2020. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer issued his ruling on the appeal
on August 20, 2020, and affirmed the Planning Commission decision in its totality. During
the meeting, the applicant discussed changes that he was willing to make to his application
in order to alleviate the Planning Commission’s concerns. The Appeals and Variance
Hearing Officer’s ruling included the following statement:

        “Accordingly, it is highly recommended that the Appellant re-file its application for a
        Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit (CUP) highlighting as appropriate such parts of
        the “offers” advanced by Appellant herein in the present appeal hearing.

        In balance and tandem with Appellant’s refiling it also is highly recommended that City
        Staff and the Planning Commission speedily and earnestly process such application with
        a level of cooperation and “give and take” and open-mindedness comparable to
        Appellant’s “offers”.”

Any comments received from the public can be found in Exhibit J of this report.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




Quality Diamond Tools 2                                               App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
two dwelling units per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.”

The majority of the property is adjacent to the RA2 zone; however, there is some CN
(Neighborhood Commercial) located on the southwest corner of the property.

Home Occupation Request. The purpose of the home occupations regulations can be found
in DCMC Section 9-34-010. The intent is to allow for limited business activities in residential
areas without disturbing the residential character of the neighborhood.

        DCMC Section 9-34-010
        The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for home



Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                 App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
        occupations. These regulations are intended to ensure that limited business activities
        allowed in a residential zone do not disturb the residential character of a neighborhood.

The applicants are proposing a home “office” and “assembly and repair, limited” use for the
sale of drill tools for the geo-tech and mineral exploration market (Exhibit I). The home
office use is permitted pursuant to DCMC Section 9-34-030 and the assembly and repair,
limited use is a conditional use pursuant to DCMC Section 9-34-050. The business is
proposed to be located within several buildings on the property, including a home office,
and two detached structures within the rear yard. In addition, the applicant will have one
business vehicle, one utility trailer, one flatbed truck, and a forklift. The business will have
two employees who do not reside in the home, in addition to the two business owners.
Hours of operation are 8:00am to 5:30pm, Monday through Friday. The business serves as
a call center taking orders for drill tools. The company also purchases parts for resale,
including delivery, repackaging, and shipping. The applicant does have a wood saw and
uses that to fabricate small pieces of wood to place in the packaging boxes to prevent
shifting of the merchandise during shipping. This business falls under two use categories,
Assembly and Repair, Limited and Office, General. The definitions for these use categories are
as follows:

        DCMC 9-3-040: Definitions:
        ASSEMBLY AND REPAIR, LIMITED: A business where products are processed, fabricated,
        assembled, repaired, or packaged within the home. Typical uses may include computer
        assembly or repair, small appliance repair, packaging, wholesale, or fabrication of items.
        Assembly, fabrication, and repair is intended to be small-scale in nature where items are
        produced one at a time in small quantities or on a made-to-order basis, and does not
        include mass production of goods. Products brought to or from the home shall be small
        enough to be carried by one individual. Auto and small engine repair is not allowed. The
        business shall not create noise, odor, vibration, or other impacts discernible outside of
        the home. Anything that uses a material, a mixture of materials, or a quantity of
        materials that could be classified by the fire marshal or building official as dangerous or
        hazardous will not be allowed.

        OFFICE, GENERAL: A building, room or department where executive, management,
        administrative or professional services are provided, except medical services, and
        excluding the sale of merchandise, except as incidental to a principal use. Typical uses
        include real estate brokers, insurance agencies, credit reporting agencies, property
        management firms, investment firms, employment agencies, travel agencies, advertising
        agencies, secretarial services, data processing, telephone answering, paging and beeper
        services and facsimile transmission services; post offices and express mail offices as an
        accessory or complementary use to a professional and business office development, but
        excluding major mail processing and distribution; offices for utility bill collection;
        professional or consulting services in the fields of law, architecture, design, engineering,
        accounting and similar professions; interior decorating consulting services; and business



Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                  App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    4
        offices of private companies, utility companies, public agencies, trade associations,
        unions and nonprofit organizations.

The definition of assembly and repair, limited, allows for a business that is small scale in
nature with the intent of products being made or packaged to order and small enough to
be carried by one individual. The proposed business is more intense than the uses
contemplated with this definition. The following analysis highlights those areas in which the
proposed business does not meet these standards due to the intensity of the business.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
            resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
            the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: None. Quality Diamond Tools has four
             employees, two of the four are not residents of the home.

             Staff Analysis: The applicants, husband and wife, own the property and they
             have stated that they live within the home. Both work for the business. No
             changes have been made from the 2020 Application.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
            and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: None.

             Staff Analysis: The applicants will have to apply for a business license and
             comply with any business license regulations within DCMC Title 6 if the Home
             Occupation Conditional Use Permit is approved. No changes have been made
             from the 2020 Application.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
            employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
            limited to one person.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: Quality Diamond Tools has four employees, two
             of the four are not residents of the home.




Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                  App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
             Staff Analysis: The business has two employees who do not reside within the
             home, plus the two applicants. No changes have been made from the 2020
             Application.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
            other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
            city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: None.

             Staff Analysis: Inspections will be conducted as needed for the Home Occupation
             Conditional Use Permit, Building Occupancy, and Business License. No changes
             have been made from the 2020 Application.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
            fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             Applicants Deviation Request: The back office and structures will be used
             primarily for the applicants’ business, Quality Diamond Tools (“QDT”). QDT
             operates primarily by providing phone consultations with various companies
             regarding their drilling and mining tool needs. Additional business operations
             include purchasing, reselling and shipping products. (See Exhibit E for the
             applicant submitted Site Plan layout of the structures on the property.)

             Staff Analysis: The 2020 Application stated that 30%-35% of the business is drop-
             shipped, meaning product is shipped directly from the supplier to the buyer.
             That leaves 65%-70% of the product to be shipped to the subject site,
             repackaged, and shipped to the customer. The applicant has amended the use
             of the structures since the 2020 Application. The applicant has not proposed to
             remove structures from the property, but has stated less of the structures will be
             utilized for the business with half of the conex containers and half of the wood
             shop structure being utilized for personal use. The applicants are proposing to
             utilize the following structures on site for operation of the business:

              Home Square Footage 4,480           Current Application        2020 Application
                                                  Sq. Ft. % of Home          Sq. Ft.     % of Home
                                                          Sq. Ft.                        Sq. Ft.
              Home Office (within Primary         144     3.2%               144         3.2%
              Residence)
              Storage Space (within Wood          400       8.9%             800                 17.8%
              Shop Structure)
              Storage Space (within               1,480     33.0%            1,480               33.0%
              Garage/Shop Structure)



Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                    App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     6
              Office (within Garage/Shop         300     6.6%           300                 6.6%
              Structure)
              Conex Container 1                  80      1.7%           160                 3.5%
              Conex Container 2                  80      1.7%           160                 3.5%
              Total Business Square              2,484   55.4%          3,044               67.9%
              Footage
              Total Storage Sq Ft Storage        2,040   816%           2,600               1,040%
              Compared to 250 Sq Ft
              Allowed

             These numbers illustrate a reduction in business area compared to the 2020
             Application.

             The two conex containers listed above have recently been added to the rear
             property and are not considered legal nonconforming like the two garage
             structures. If you recall, the subject site includes two separate parcels, one with
             the house, and one with the two detached structures. DCMC Section 9-10-030(B)
             requires a primary use to be located on a property in order to establish an
             accessory use. A detached garage or storage building, such as a conex container,
             is considered an accessory use. In the RA2 zone, a single-family house is
             considered a primary use. While the two detached garage/shop structures are
             legally allowed to stay, the applicant cannot place additional detached accessory
             structures on the property and comply with current code. Per DCMC Section 9-
             10-030(B) an accessory building cannot be established on a property unless as a
             permitted or conditional use, such as a house, has been established. The conex
             containers would increase the degree of non-conformity of the property. The
             amount of proposed storage is excessive, the use of additional structures not
             historically found on the property is non-compliant to DCMC. The conex
             containers should not be allowed for business purposes or allowed to stay on
             the property as they violate DCMC Section 9-10-030(B). A condition of approval
             has been included in this report requiring the conex containers to be removed
             from the property and prohibiting their use for the business.

             The applicants stated that the former location on Kimball’s Lane utilized an off-
             site storage unit at a commercial facility for much of the storage. Staff
             recommends the applicants continue utilizing an offsite commercial storage unit
             for the majority of the business storage needs. Even with the removal of the two
             conex containers, the applicants are proposing to utilize 1,880 square feet of
             space outside the home. This equals 41.9% of the home square footage. The
             requested amount of storage is excessive for a residential zone which only
             allows 250 square feet for a home based business. It may be reasonable to
             allow one of the structures to be utilized for the business. There are other home
             based businesses within the city that utilize accessory structures. A condition of



Quality Diamond Tools 2                                               App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
             approval has been included which limits business operations to one detached
             building, which reduces the overall size of the business operations to 42.9% of
             the home’s square footage, and 592% of the allowed 250 square feet of storage
             space.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
            exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
            dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
            benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
            provide parking required for a home occupation.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: The business will have very minimal aesthetic
             impact to the surrounding area, as the business structures are largely, or
             entirely, out of public view. Moreover, since the business operates primarily as
             phone consultation service, its primary operations will also be largely out of the
             public view, and will cause no disturbance to neighboring property owners.

             Staff Analysis: The applicants are proposing to utilize an existing garage shop
             and wood shop on the property that equals 1,880 square feet of storage space
             and 300 square feet of office space. The structures are located to the rear of the
             property. The applicants have a paved parking area behind the house for
             employees and deliveries. The rear of the property is accessed from a driveway
             on the south side of the home. The front yard has not been altered.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
            offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
            magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: As previously stated, QDT does also operate as a
             shipping center for products. However, QDT is willing and able to mitigate any
             disturbances this causes, establishing firm policies to regulate the minimal
             amount of delivery vehicles coming to and from the property.

             Staff Analysis: The business will not create any offensive or noxious emissions of
             odor, smoke, gas, vibration, or magnetic interference. The business does utilize a
             commercial forklift. This may cause noise concerns with neighbors. The
             applicant has submitted a log for the forklift usage during the month March 2,
             2021 to March 12, 2021 (Exhibit G). During that 10 day period, the forklift was
             used for a total of 9 min. The applicant has submitted a Forklift and Delivery
             Vehicle Policy (Exhibit F). A condition of approval has been included that use of
             the forklift comply with the policy standards:

                 1. Forklift to operate only during the hours of 8am-5:30pm.



Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                 App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
                 2. Forklift to be used no more than 1 machine-hour per week.
                 3. Forklift to be parked and shut off when not in use.
                 4. Forklift to be used only to unload palettes or move heavy items.
                 5. Forklift back-up alarm to be silenced at all times.
                 6. Only trained operators are authorized to operate forklifts.
                 7. Forklift must be kept clean and free of excess dirt, oil, and grease at all
                    times.
                 8. All operations and traffic shall be conducted in a manner to limit
                    disturbances to neighboring properties to the maximum extent possible.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
            primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
            disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
            is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
            for the home occupation.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: The business will have very minimal aesthetic
             impact to the surrounding area, as the business structures are largely, or
             entirely, out of public view. Moreover, since the business operates primarily as
             phone consultation service, its primary operations will also be largely out of the
             public view, and will cause no disturbance to neighboring property owners.
             Further, although the parcels immediately surrounding the property are also
             zoned RA2, the property is located a short distance- i.e., less than a quarter mile-
             from 123rd South, a street lined with various types of commercially-zoned
             properties. Accordingly, the applicants do not expect that the proposed use will
             have any significant impact on the potential or existing development in the
             vicinity, nor on the health, safety, or welfare of the surrounding areas that does
             not already exist. In light of the foregoing, the proposed conditional use for QDT
             operations will have a very small impact on the surrounding community and
             largely blend in with its surroundings.

             Staff Analysis: The dwelling unit on the property is 4,480 square feet in size.
             There is a 144 square foot office located within the dwelling, equaling 3.2% of
             the dwellings square footage. The remainder of the business activities are
             located within detached accessory structures, including office and storage space,
             equaling 2,340 square feet, or 52.2% of the dwelling units square footage. The
             business will utilize 55.4% of the square footage of the dwelling unit, compared
             to the 25% allowed outright by code. This number is down from the 2020
             Application, which proposed to utilize 67.9% of the square footage of the
             dwelling unit.

        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.




Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                    App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     9
             Applicants’ Deviation Request: None.

             Staff Analysis: Per DCMC Section 9-26-070(B)(1) home occupations are allowed to
             have signage equaling a maximum of 2 square feet in size, with the sign
             attached to the plane on the building. No signage has been applied for. If the
             applicants desire to add signage in the future, it will have to comply with the sign
             code. A condition of approval has been included requiring compliance with
             DCMC Section 9-26-070(B)(1). No changes have been made from the 2020
             Application.

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             Applicants Deviation Request: As previously stated, QDT does also operate as a
             shipping center for products. However, QDT is willing and able to mitigate any
             disturbances this causes, establishing firm policies to regulate the minimal
             amount of delivery vehicles coming to and from the property.

             Staff Analysis: The property contains an 85-foot by 95-foot asphalt area in front
             of the accessory buildings that can be utilized for parking and delivery turn
             around. This would allow for 15 parking spaces on site, and an area for any
             delivery vehicles to turn around. The business has two employees which do not
             live in the home. A condition of approval has been included that all employee
             parking shall be located on-site. In addition, the business does get deliveries
             from UPS. The applicant has submitted a Forklift and Delivery Vehicle Policy
             (Exhibit F). A condition of approval has been included that deliveries comply with
             the policy standards:

             1. Semi-trucks are prohibited from entering the property.
             2. Any deliveries to or from the business must be handled at an off-site dock.
             3. Transportation of items from the off-site dock to the home are to be by
                nothing larger than a pick up or a 2014 Dodge Ram 5500 Diesel flatbed truck
                or similar vehicle.
             4. Outgoing deliveries are to be handled by UPS.
             5. Deliveries to occur only during the hours of 8am-5:30pm.
             6. Incoming deliveries shall be limited to no more than two per week.
             7. All operations and traffic shall be conducted in a manner to limit
                disturbances to neighboring properties to the maximum extent possible.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
            vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which



Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                   App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    10
             would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
             shall be allowed on vehicles.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: Incoming deliveries are to be by nothing larger
             than a pick up or flatbed truck. The currently used flatbed truck is a 2014 Dodge
             Ram 5500 Diesel truck.

             Staff Analysis: The 2020 Application stated there are two vehicles, a single
             double axel utility trailer and a commercial forklift used for the business. There
             has been a couple changes since 2020. The applicant now has one business
             vehicle instead of two and has added the flatbed truck previously discussed
             (Exhibit H). A condition of approval has been included which prohibits any
             additional business vehicles, flatbed trucks, trailers, or motorized equipment
             from being located on the property and requires all business vehicles to be
             parked on-site. There is plenty of room of the property for the vehicles as the
             rear parking area has space for 15 vehicles.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
            any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: None.

             Staff Analysis: The applicants have not stated that any yard area will be used for
             the business. The business will be run out of detached accessory buildings,
             including an office and storage. An office will also be provided within the home.
             No changes have been made from the 2020 Application.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: None. QDT does not have a store front; any
             communication with clients occurs by phone, mail, or email.

             Staff Analysis: The applicants do not anticipate customers and have stated the
             business does not have a storefront and does not solicit or ask customers to
             come to the home. No changes have been made from the 2020 Application.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
            excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: None.




Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   11
             Staff Analysis: The business will require utility usage for the accessory office and
             garage structure. The applicants have not indicated that utility demand will be
             greater than typically found for accessory structures in residential
             neighborhoods. No changes have been made from the 2020 Application.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: The back office and structures will be used
             primarily for the applicants’ business.

             Staff Analysis: The business will include a small home office, and the rest of the
             business activities will be conducted within accessory detached structures, which
             includes the 300 square foot office space and the 2,040 square feet of storage
             space.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
            conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
            dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
            this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
            letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
            case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
            vehicles.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: None.

             Staff Analysis: There is a single-family home on the property. No changes have
             been made from the 2020 Application.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
            state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
            not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
            Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
            childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
            seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
            inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
            under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             Applicants’ Deviation Request: None.

             Staff Analysis: The business does not involve childcare or food. No changes have
             been made from the 2020 Application.




Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                 App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   12
Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
            reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
            can be met.



Quality Diamond Tools 2                                              App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   13
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends that they
include the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                 site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
        2.       Comply with all the requirements of DCMC 9-34-040, except for alterations to
                 the standards enumerated in that subsection specifically approved by the
                 Planning Commission.
        3.       An office shall be maintained within the home at all times.
        4.       Hours of operation are limited to 8:00am to 5:30pm, Monday through Friday.
        5.       On-site parking shall be provided to all employees. There shall be no
                 employee parking on the public right-of-way.



Quality Diamond Tools 2                                              App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   14
        6.       Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to two people.
        7.       Customers are prohibited from coming to the home, all product is to be
                 shipped or delivered.
        8.       The Forklift and Delivery Vehicle Policy included as Exhibit F shall be
                 amended to show operation hours as 8:00am to 5:30pm. The updated Policy
                 shall be strictly followed at all times.
        9.       All deliveries and pickups shall be made by delivery vans/trucks equaling
                 26,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less. All deliveries shall take place on
                 the property and not in the public right-of-way. Semi-trucks are prohibited
                 from entering the property.
        10.      No vehicles, trailers, or otherwise shall block 800 East to load or unload at
                 any time. All business activities shall take place on the property.
        11.      The two conex containers shall not be utilized for the business and shall be
                 removed from the property.
        12.      No additional storage containers shall be added to the property for business
                 purposes, including, but not limited to, sheds, garages, shops, or conex
                 containers.
        13.      All business operations are limited to the office in the residential dwelling
                 unit and the one detached structure referred to as the Garage/Shop
                 Structure in the attached site plan and as referred to in this report. No
                 additional areas may be utilized for the business per DCMC Section 9-34-
                 040(O), including the Wood Shop and Structure.
        14.      The number of business vehicles is capped at one, business flat-bed truck is
                 capped at one, business utility trailers is capped at one, and motorized
                 equipment, such as the forklift, is capped at one. No additional business
                 vehicles, truck, utility trailer, motorized equipment/forklift, or the like shall be
                 allowed on the property. All business vehicles, truck, utility trailer, and the
                 motorized equipment/forklift shall be parked on the property, and not within
                 the public right-of-way. All vehicles, truck, utility trailer, and motorized
                 equipment/forklift shall conform to DCMC Section 9-25-050(H) and (I).
        15.      A Knox Box shall be required on all gates, subject to the standards and
                 requirements of the International Fire Code and the Draper City Fire
                 Department.
        16.      Fire Department Access is required to be maintained. Vehicles cannot park in
                 such a way to impede fire department or emergency vehicle access.
        17.      All signage on the site shall comply with DCMC Section 9-26-070(B)(1),
                 including permitting.
        18.      Per DCMC Section 9-34-040(D) inspections will be conducted as needed for
                 the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, Building Occupancy, and
                 Business License.
        19.      Provide an affidavit certifying that the property is the applicant’s primary
                 residence.




Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                   App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    15
The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures have been placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic, noise, and parking.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic, noise, and parking.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit , as requested by Jim and Lois Duncan for Quality Diamond Tools 2, application
USE-013-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated April 13, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit , as requested by Jim and Lois Duncan for Quality Diamond Tools 2,
application USE-013-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated April 13, 2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit , as requested by Jim and Lois Duncan for Quality Diamond Tools 2, application USE-
013-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated April 13, 2021.




Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                 App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   16
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                                                                                                Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                     Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                         DN: C=US,

 Brien Maxfield
                     DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -                              E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                     Engineering,
                     email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                                                                          Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,

__________________________________                                        __________________________________
                     Date: 2021.04.14 08:42:00 -06'00'
                                                                                                CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                Date: 2021.04.16 09:09:03-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                       Draper City Planning Division



                                                                          Mike Barker
                      Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                      DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,                                     Digitally signed by Mike Barker
Don Buckley
__________________________________
                      O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire
                      Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                      Date: 2021.04.14 08:46:45-06'00'                    __________________________________
                                                                                                Date: 2021.04.16 14:07:58 -06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                               Draper City Legal Counsel


                       Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                       DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,

 Keith Collier         O=Draper City, OU=Building Official,

__________________________________
                       CN=Keith Collier
                       Date: 2021.04.14 08:45:57-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




Quality Diamond Tools 2                                                                         App. # USE-013-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request                       17
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      The applicant has amended the business model and limited the use of the
               forklift and created a plan to control the type of delivery vehicles that come
               to the site.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
               serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to
               be located in a conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and
               immediately available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in cabinet
               or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not
               more than five (5) feet above the floor.
       2.      Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
               address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
               property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
       3.      Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted
               to exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
               exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the
               top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General
               Contractor. See attached information form.
       4.      Fire Department Access is required to be maintained. Vehicles cannot park in
               such a way to impede fire department or emergency vehicle access.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
292.36 XXXXX




   Garage/Shop




  Wood
  Shop
             EXHIBIT F
FORKLIFT AND DELIVERY VEHICLE POLICY
                                           Quality Diamond Tools
                           Forklift and Delivery Vehicle Policy

1.    Forklift to operate only during the hours of 8am-6pm.

2.    Forklift to be used no more than 1 machine-hour per week.

3.    Forklift to be parked and shut off when not in use.

4.    Forklift to be used only to unload palettes or move heavy items.

5.    Forklift back-up alarm to be silenced at all times.

6.    Only trained operators are authorized to operate forklifts.

7.    Forklift must be kept clean and free of excess dirt, oil, and grease at all
      times.

8.    Semi-trucks are prohibited from entering the property.

9.    Any deliveries to or from the business must be handled at an off-site
      dock.

10.   Incoming deliveries are to be by nothing larger than a pickup or flatbed
      truck. Outgoing deliveries are to be handled by UPS.

11.   Deliveries to occur only during the hours of 8am-6pm.

12.   Incoming deliveries shall be limited to no more than two per week.

13.   All operations and traffic shall be conducted in a manner to limit
      disturbances to neighboring properties to the maximum extent possible.




Forklift Operations Plan                                                            7
                 EXHIBIT G
FORKLIFT USEAGE LOG AND NEIGHBOR CONSENT
       EXHIBIT H
FLAT BED TRUCK IMAGES
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                              Bateman, Brent N. <brent.bateman@dentons.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, March 16, 2021 5:36 PM
To:                                Jennifer Jastremsky
Cc:                                jim qdtools.us
Subject:                           Quality Diamond Tools Flatbed Truck


Jennifer:

This is the actual flatbed truck that Mr. Duncan owns and occasionally will be used for deliveries. It is a 2014 Dodge Ram
5500 Diesel flatbed. He uses it to pull his RV. Let me know if you would like any further details about it.

We are happy to have a condition that nothing bigger than this truck be used for deliveries.




                                                             1
2
Brent N. Bateman
Shareholder

We are proud that Dentons is one of the three best known and most favored firms in
the world, according to the Thomson Reuters Acritas “Global Elite Brand Index,"
the annual ranking of law firms judged by leading general counsel.

O +1 801 375 6600 | US Internal 804751
brent.bateman@dentons.com
Bio | Website

Dentons Durham Jones Pinegar P.C.
3301 North Thanksgiving Way, Suite 400, Lehi, UT 84043

Eric Silwamba, Jalasi and Linyama > Durham Jones & Pinegar > LEAD Advogados >
Rattagan Macchiavello Arocena > Jiménez de Aréchaga, Viana & Brause > Lee
International > Kensington Swan > Bingham Greenebaum > Cohen & Grigsby >
Sayarh & Menjra > Larraín Rencoret > For more information on the firms that have
come together to form Dentons, go to dentons.com/legacyfirms

Dentons is a global legal practice providing client services worldwide through its member firms
and affiliates. This email may be confidential and protected by legal privilege. If you are not the
intended recipient, disclosure, copying, distribution and use are prohibited; please notify us
immediately and delete this email from your systems. Dentons records and stores emails sent to
us or our affiliates in keeping with our internal policies and procedures. Please see dentons.com
for Legal Notices.



                            3
       EXHIBIT I
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
   EXHIBIT J
PUBLIC COMMENT
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                          TYLER HEATHER ALLAN <allanspond1@msn.com>
Sent:                          Tuesday, April 13, 2021 9:20 PM
To:                            Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                       Home Occupayion Conditional Use Permit



Hi Jennifer!
Thank you for allowing my input! Just wanted to let you know I have spoken with Jim Duncan about the
conditional use permit he is seeking. (App # USE-013-2021) I have no problem with him operating that type of
business at 12138 S 800 E. I think operating from the garage in the rear of his home is a good thing. I
appreciate businessmen like Jim. He has been totally up front with what his operations are there. I hope that
Draper City will grant him the conditional use permit.
Regards,
Tyler Allan




                                                      1
