MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER
16, 2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:             Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha
                     Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
                    Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel
                    Dunsmore, Human Resource Director; John Eining, Police Chief;
                    Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
                    Communications Director; Bart Vawdrey, Deputy Fire Captain;
                    Jake Sorensen, IT; and Bob Wylie, FinanP planner; Maryann
                    Pickering, Planner; and Travis DeJong, Business License Official
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0    Council/Manager Reports

1.1    Councilmember Vawdrey reported that as part of the Miss Draper Etiquette
       program they had done a program called ‘adopt a spot’ right by the entrance
       sign to Draper where they had planted flowers.

       She had someone in the community approach her about their Accessory
       Dwelling Unit (ADU) setbacks. This person had an existing garage and the
       setback for garages was ten feet but the ADU setback was twelve feet so they
       couldn’t turn their garage into an apartment that they needed. She wanted to
       look into seeing if there was a way to grandfather in existing circumstances for
       this. There was a discussion about the difference between attached and
       detached dwellings. It was decided this would be looked into further. The
       resident had not applied for a variance but the application for variances had
       been tightened up so that they were only allowed if there were absolutely no
       other alternatives.

1.2    Councilmember T. Lowery followed up on new construction leaning toward
       more water-wise in terms of parks strips that had been brought up by
       Councilmember F. Lowry. Councilmember F. Lowry said that the last he


Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – November 16, 2021
      remembered, they had asked staff to look into putting that into new
      construction. Mr. Dobbins said that was still the plan and they were working
      with Jordan Valley Water to give them a model ordinance that they would
      adopt. One of the things that were slowing them down was that commercial
      properties had to submit a landscaping plan and single residential family plans
      do not require this. If they wanted to go the water-wise route they would have
      to require plans for park strips for residential properties. Mayor Walker didn’t
      think they should be putting grass onto commercial properties. Bret Milburn,
      Assistant City Manager, said that they didn’t require commercial to have a
      certain percentage of water-wise. Councilmember F. Lowry didn’t think they
      should be requiring it at all because if the following year was another less than
      average year no one would be allowed to water their lawns at all. Mr. Dobbins
      said that they would adopt whatever ordinance was given to them by Jordan
      Valley. Councilmember T. Lowery agreed with the mayor that they shouldn’t
      require grass in park strips. Mr. Dobbins said that they didn’t inspect park
      strips for residential at the time. Councilmember T. Lowery didn’t think that
      people liked to put grass in the strips because then they had to water them.
      Councilmember F. Lowry said that they needed to have some sort of
      guidelines otherwise people wouldn’t maintain them.

1.3   Councilmember Green asked about the options they had with Traverse Ridge
      Road. Scott Cooley, Public Works Director replied that nothing was off the
      table. They had discussed a runaway ramp, but they currently hadn’t found a
      place that was long enough to have one. Some areas were close but if they
      made one that was too short, they ran the risk of liability. Enforcing weight
      limits was another matter and it would be easier to enforce a no truck policy
      than a weight limit policy. Mayor Walker asked if they could just gear down
      and drive in a lower gear. Mr. Cooley said that he guessed a lot of these
      vehicles were not maintained and overloaded. In the past 4 years, they had
      had 4 serious accidents at that location, so it was an issue that they didn’t take
      lightly. There were truck limits posted but had not been practical to enforce.
      Mr. Cooley said that truck drivers were used to finding truck routes and that
      some people will complain about it but if they wanted to truly mitigate the
      problem this was the best way to do it. Mayor Walker thought that this was
      the only way to do it and that enforcement of truck weights wasn’t an option.
      Mr. Cooley said they would have to make exceptions for emergency vehicles
      and garbage trucks if they did a truck ban. It was decided they would look into
      a truck ban further.



                                                                            Page 2 of 16
Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   Jody Van Rhee, a pastor from the Adventure Church, led a prayer.

2.2   Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager, led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0   Recognition: 2021 State Champions Corner Canyon High School Mountain Bike
      Team

3.1   Mayor Walker recognized the accomplishments of the Corner Canyon High
      School Mountain Bike team on their 5th state championship. They had one
      individual champion and 53 riders had a 4.0 or higher GPA and 19 with a 3.9.
      Coach Whitney Pogue had transformed the high school sport and the city was
      grateful to have her as a coach.

4.0   Proclamation: Extra Mile Day and Extra Mile Hero Recognition

4.1   Mayor Walker read the proclamation and recognized the Extra Mile Hero,
      Whitney Pogue. Ms. Pogue gave a speech thanking the Council and
      community.

5.0   Public Comments

6.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of October 5, 2021, and October 19, 2021, City Council Meeting
         Minutes
      b. Approval of Resolution #21-56, A resolution reappointing John Maack to
         serve as a member of the Draper City Parks, Trails, and Recreation
         Committee.

6.1   Councilmember Green moved to approve the Consent Items. Councilmember
      Vawdrey seconded the motion.



                                                                         Page 3 of 16
6.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-62, certifying the 2021 Municipal General Election
      Canvass of Votes.

7.1   Laura Oscarson, City Recorder, displayed a form she had received from Salt
      Lake County that evening showing statistics of the election. She then displayed
      the results. Mayor Walker had received 100% of the votes for mayor. She
      showed another form from the county displaying the results for council
      member elections. She would send out the certifying letter that she would
      send to the Lieutenant Governor's office for each of them to sign. Mayor
      Walker said that they had gone to Rank Choice Voting which people thought
      had dragged out the election but the vote by mail process is what had taken
      so long.

7.2   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                    Resolution    #21-62.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

7.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Public Hearing: Ordinances # 1512 and #1513, ordinances amending the
      official zoning map of Draper City for approximately 1.5 acres of property from
      RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to RM1 (Multi-
      family residential, up to 8 dwelling units per acre), and the official land use
      map of Draper City for approximately 1.5 acres of property from Residential
      low/medium density to Residential medium/high density and approving a
      development agreement, located at approximately 13666 South 300 East
      within Draper City, otherwise known as the Concord Lane Zoning Map, Land
      Use Amendment and Development Agreement.

8.1   Jennifer Jastremsky, planner, said that the property was located off of 300 East.
      The key with the development agreement was that they were proposing to do
      single dwelling detached homes only and they were proposing 6,000 square
      feet lot minimums. The RM1 allowed for up to 8 units but they were only
      proposing 6. The city could not require façade materials per their code. Ms.
      Jastremsky said they were proposing a 2-car garage with deep driveways per
      city code. The RM1 zone for a front setback was a 20-foot minimum and they

                                                                           Page 4 of 16
      were proposing 20 feet for the garage and 15 feet for the living area. For side
      setbacks, they were proposing 4 feet on one side and 7 feet on the other where
      the RM zone required 6 feet and for rear setbacks, they were proposing 20 feet
      which adhered to zoning. On the private roads, they agreed to comply with
      the city standards. Ms. Jastremsky presented a table that compared different
      residential zones and images of adjacent neighborhoods. The Planning
      Commission had reviewed this and recommended approval 5-0.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if this proposal would be narrower than the
      Cove at Brown Farm. Ms. Jastremsky replied that Cove at Brown Farm had the
      5-foot setback and with the 4 feet and 7 feet side setbacks proposed they
      would all be a little different.
      Councilmember F. Lowry asked about the road width. He asked if there was
      an issue or concern with fire or police. Captain Bart Vawdrey replied that it
      had been reviewed by the fire marshal and was within the code.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked what would happen if they didn’t deviate from
      the setbacks and if they would be able to build the lots. Ms. Jastremsky replied
      that they should still be able to build with the setbacks but that was a
      discussion to have with the applicant.

      Councilmember Roberts asked legal about the architectural standards and
      what kind of leeway it gave the developer in terms of architectural standards.
      Ms. Jastremsky said that when they came in for a building permit, they would
      pull up the development agreement and make sure that they had these
      specific architectural features on the home. Councilmember T. Lowery asked
      if there was any discussion about connectivity and the adjacent development
      to the north. Ms. Jastremsky replied that the applicant had said that they had
      looked into it but the streets in the development to the north were narrower
      than what the current code required to add additional lots so they would need
      to widen the road if they wanted to add any more lots but with the current
      layout of the subdivision this would not be possible. Councilmember T. Lowery
      said she liked the idea of green space in the north development and asked if
      there had been any discussion about the inclusion of green space with the new
      proposed development. Ms. Jastremsky replied that they had not had that
      discussion with the applicant.

8.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. Mayor Walker closed the public
      hearing.

                                                                          Page 5 of 16
8.3   Ron Smith, applicant, 1158 East Parkstone Drive, commented on the side
      setbacks of 4 feet and 7 feet. He said they had gone over this with the fire
      marshal who had given them some suggestions. The subdivision was planned,
      and he thought it looked really good. He thought they needed smaller lots in
      town to make housing more affordable. He said that on lot 7 there would be
      a retention area to catch the water that came down the swell. He thought it
      was important to have a variety of lot sizes to help development.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked what the side setbacks for the last two lots
      would be. Mr. Smith replied 7 feet and 4 feet.

      Wendy Vawdrey, 13044 Pheasant Haven Ct., said that it was her understanding
      was that the 4 feet and 7 feet setbacks had been set in this meeting. When
      this was originally drawn the setbacks had been set at 5 feet on each side
      which was why it looked like the houses were closer to each other on the
      diagram.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if it was possible to maintain the same setbacks
      that Brooks Lane had. Wendy Vawdrey said that the reason they ended up
      with 7 and 4 was that it had been an evolution as they went through meetings
      with engineers because there needed to be easements on one side. She wasn’t
      sure why 7 needed to be on one side but maybe engineering could explain
      that. The only inconsistency was that they were asking for a 15-foot setback
      for the living area because of the lot configuration. The 15-foot setback would
      allow for a better living area and allow for a yard and the two-car garage
      requirement.

      Wendy Vawdrey said that this was the old Fitzgerald farm and the division of
      this left lots that were non-compliant and were very narrow. She commented
      that the current Council had inherited the poor planning decisions of prior
      Councils. She had been to a lot of meetings to figure out how to best use this
      land and Brooks Lane had been such a success they wanted to extend it with
      this proposal. To settle the old Fitzgerald farm was important because it would
      look more cohesive and would solve a lot of problems.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that there were a lot of complaints that the Cove
      at Brown Farm was cramped and asked if it was fair to say that the proposed
      setbacks were because of engineering and square footage. Wendy Vawdrey

                                                                         Page 6 of 16
      replied that they were just trying to get the maximum amount of building that
      they were allowed with the ordinance. She said that a 5-foot side yard was a
      good-sized side yard for what they were trying to do. When side yards are
      wider, sod gets slapped in and it is a waste of water. Councilmember Roberts
      asked if the development agreement addressed how elevations would be
      assessed. Wendy Vawdrey replied that her understanding was that this wasn’t
      required anymore because of state law so she thought they already had a lot
      more detail than was required. She didn’t know how this would be sold so she
      couldn’t say for sure how this would be implemented.

**    Mayor Walker left the meeting at 8:03 p.m.

      David Dobbins, City Manager, said that if they were concerned, they should
      make it clear in the agreement in case it was sold to someone else. Wendy
      Vawdrey said if they wanted to include more specific language regarding this,
      they could look into it. Mr. Dobbins said that they could get very specific in a
      development agreement. Councilmember Roberts said he just wanted to
      make sure they got something more like Brooks Lane than Cove at Brown
      Farm. Wendy Vawdrey said that they got the elevation specifications from
      Brooks Lane with the addition of stucco.

8.4   Councilmember F. Lowry said that his only concern was that they needed to
      be more consistent with the setbacks to mirror Brooks Lane. He suggested
      continuing this to work out all the language so that they would be allowed to
      get this project moving. Wendy Vawdrey had no problem setting 6-foot
      setbacks as a stipulation. Councilmember F. Lowry said that continuing this
      would be beneficial to Ms. Vawdrey so she could confer with engineering to
      make sure this would be acceptable, and it wouldn’t be a long delay.

8.5   Councilmember Green did not like this at all, he thought it was asking for too
      much on this property. Councilmember T. Lowery liked how there weren’t
      multiple access points and agreed with Councilmember F. Lowry that it needed
      to comply with setbacks. She also wanted to look at the minimum lot size.
      Wendy Vawdrey addressed the lot size and said that they had tried to respect
      the actual property line but there were just some odd features to it. She
      addressed Councilmember Green’s concerns and said that this area was
      difficult because it was a buffer zone and because of what had been allowed
      so far, they were in kind of a pickle.



                                                                          Page 7 of 16
8.6   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to continue Ordinances #1512 and #1513,
      Concord Lane Zoning Map, Land Use Amendment, and Development
      Agreement to the next scheduled City Council meeting. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

8.7   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1511, an ordinance of Draper City amending the
      text of the land use and development code of the Draper City Municipal Code
      relating to Highline Office 2 Commercial Special District (CSD)

9.1   Jennifer Jastremsky, planner, said this was for an overall zoning district and
      was about 70 acres in size. The specific area affected was about 6.5 acres. The
      land use was commercial special district and zoning was Highline CSD. She
      showed a diagram of the existing zoning and pointed out the areas under
      consideration. They intended to build an office in B and C rather than
      residential. She showed the existing concept plan and site plan. The
      walkability plan in the CSD would be modified to account for a new office
      building and the amenities would also be modified. The applicant had
      provided a map for ground elevations in the area, and they also provided a
      video.

      Mr. Dobbins said that the residential area had been assigned as multi-family
      and asked how tall that residential could be. Ms. Jastremsky replied that Mark
      was saying ten stories.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that this would eliminate the use for multi-
      family. Mr. Dobbins said that it wouldn’t eliminate that use but rather just add
      the use of office space.

      Councilmember Roberts asked how this would impact the property tax
      revenues versus the previous plan.

      Mr. Dobbins said that residential typically had a higher call of demand on
      services and the traffic would be different. He said that property taxes were
      much higher on an office structure than residential so essentially, they would
      be getting a higher value on property tax. Ms. Jastremsky said that the
      Planning Commission had recommended this positively with a 4-0 vote.

                                                                          Page 8 of 16
9.2    Mark Murdock with Gardner Company, 201 South Main Street, said they were
       excited about this project because they already had a tenant that they were
       planning to put here and make the building special. They wanted to do a cross-
       laminated timber building which was something that had never been done in
       Utah before.

       Councilmember Roberts said he loved the project, and this was a phenomenal
       tenant that would contribute to the economic ecosystem.

       Mr. Murdock said that the plan was to break ground in Q1 of the following year
       and it would be about a 24-month build.

9.3    Mayor Pro Tem Lowery opened the public hearing no one came forward so
       the public hearing was closed.

9.4    Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinance #1511, Highline Office 2
       Commercial Special District text amendment. Councilmember Vawdrey
       seconded the motion.

9.5    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1509, an ordinance amending the official zoning
       map of Draper City for approximately 1.0 acres of property from RA1
       (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square feet minimum lot size) to CN
       (Neighborhood Commercial), located at approximately 12071 South 700 East
       within Draper City, otherwise known as the 7th East Office Building Zoning
       Map Amendment.

10.1   Todd Draper, planner, showed an aerial view of the lot, the land use map, and
       a zoning map. This was before the Planning Commission on October 14 and
       was unanimously given a favorable recommendation. He showed some site
       photos of the property.

10.2   Councilmember Roberts commented that there had been discussion about
       this being a UDOT road and would need to be widened and asked what the
       implications of that would be. Mr. Draper replied that UDOT just wanted to
       make them aware and that most of the impact would be on the eastern side

                                                                         Page 9 of 16
       of the street. He didn’t know the particulars of the project but assumed it
       would involve the canal and the canal company. Councilmember Roberts
       asked if widening the road would affect the setbacks. Councilmember F. Lowry
       clarified that they were just changing the zoning for this area and not talking
       about a specific project. Mr. Dobbins said that they wouldn’t know until UDOT
       gave them a build-out plan.

10.3    Councilmember F. Lowry said that this zoning was part of the master plan for
       the area so they wouldn’t be expanding beyond the master plan for this area,
       they would be starting to implement it. Mr. Dobbins said that that was correct.

10.4   Mayor Pro Tem Lowery opened the public hearing, no one came forward so
       the public hearing was closed.

10.5   Councilmember F. Lowry commented that this was preparing the area for the
       Master Plan that had been approved for a long time, so this was a good step
       forward.
       Councilmember Green agreed and thought this was the right thing to do.

10.6   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1509, 7th East Office
       Building Zoning Map Amendment. Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the
       motion.

10.7   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

11.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1510, an ordinance amending the official zoning
       map of Draper City for approximately .92 acres of property from RA2
       (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) to R3 (Single-family
       Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum), located at approximately 13530
       South 300 East within Draper City, otherwise known as the RL Smith Zoning
       Map Amendment.

11.1   Jen Jastremsky said that the applicant was proposing a rezone to R3 which
       would be supported by the land use map. She showed a concept plan for the
       proposal and some images of the property. The Planning Commission had
       recommended approval on a 4-0 vote.




                                                                         Page 10 of 16
       Councilmember Roberts asked if the applicant could put a third lot onto the
       property. Ms. Jastremsky replied that there would be room for three lots if all
       of the structures on the property were torn down. If the house remained there
       was not enough square footage to do three lots.

       Mr. Dobbins clarified that the reason for this rezone request was to get the
       smaller second lot. Ms. Jastresmky replied, yes, the applicant was just shy of
       being able to get two 20,000 square foot lots.

11.2   The applicant, Leone Smith said that she intended to sell the back acreage
       which was currently pasture and garden. It was a lot of property for her to
       take care of and it was a hardship on the property as well as her and she would
       like to sell off the back piece.

       Councilmember F. Lowry said that he appreciated Ms. Smith coming forward
       so they could utilize the land. He asked if they needed to do a development
       agreement. Mr. Dobbins replied that a development agreement would be easy
       to do. Ms. Smith asked why she would want to limit it to that when she just
       wanted to sell the back acreage. She didn’t want to tear down any structures,
       she just wanted to rezone it so she could sell the back piece.

**     Mayor Walker returned at 8:33 p.m.

11.3   Councilmember Roberts asked if there was anything to prevent the applicant
       from raising the property and selling it to a developer. Mr. Barker replied, no.
       Ms. Smith commented that this met with the master plan.

11.4   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

11.5   Jeff Norman, 192 East 13560 South, said that as far as the community aspect
       went, he saw zero impact and supported this motion.

11.6   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

11.7   Councilmember Green moved to approve  Ordinance #1510, RL Smith
       Zoning Map Amendment. Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

11.8   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

                                                                          Page 11 of 16
12.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1508, an ordinance amending the official zoning
       map of Draper City for approximately 1.23 acres of property from RA1
       (Residential Agricultural 40,000 square feet minimum lot size) to CN
       (Neighborhood Commercial), located at approximately 696 East 12100 South
       and 12150 South 700 East within Draper City, otherwise known as the Rockwell
       Station Zoning Map Amendment.

12.1   Todd Draper, planner, said this was comprised of 3 parcels. This application
       was before the Planning Commission who unanimously recommended in
       favor of it. He showed some site photos.

12.2   Adam Watts, the applicant, said this was a standard rezone. They had
       experience on 700 East and had done two other buildings in the area and
       looked forward to a successful third project.

12.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor
       Walker closed the public hearing.

12.4   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1508, Rockwell
       Station Zoning Map Amendment. Councilmember Roberts seconded the
       motion.

12.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

13.0   Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Limited- Service Alcohol License
       for Nawab's Indian Restaurant, LLC located at 153 West 12300 South

13.1   Travis DeJong, Business Licencing Offical, showed the standards they would
       have to meet to qualify for this. They had met all of the requirements.

13.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor
       Walker closed the public hearing.

13.3   Councilmember Green moved to approve the Local Consent for a Limited-
       Service Alcohol License for Nawab’s Indian Restaurant, LLC. Councilmember
       T. Lowery seconded the motion.



                                                                        Page 12 of 16
13.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

14.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1507, an ordinance of Draper City amending the text
       of the land use and development code (Title 9) of the Draper City Municipal
       Code relating to modifications of development standards in the 136 Center
       Commercial Special District (136C-CSD)

14.1   Maryann Pickering, planner, said that this item was continued from the last
       meeting. The height and the sign of the proposed sign had been discussed at
       the previous meeting. They had done some research on other signs in the
       area, and she gave the dimensions of the 4 other signs in the area. Kum and
       Go had proposed to do 35 feet for their sign. She showed a diagram of the
       approved signs that had gone against the code. She showed the proposed
       sign for Kum and Go. She showed a chart of the proposed standards versus
       the current CSD standards. The Planning Commission had recommended
       unanimous approval in October.

       Mr. Dobbins asked about the square footage of the signage in the area. Ms.
       Pickering gave the dimensions. The amendment before them limited the Kum
       and Go sign to 300 square feet.

       Mr. Dobbins said that he anticipated that adjacent property owners would
       want something very similar, so they needed to be clear on the specifications.
       Councilmember F. Lowry thought that they needed to consider the elevations
       of the properties as well.

       Councilmember T. Lowery asked if they could cap it at 200 square feet.

14.2   Nate Abbott, the applicant, clarified that there were two types of signs allowed
       in the CSD zone district and there was no limitation to the area as currently
       outlined in the CSD zone. They were proposing to relocate one of the signs,
       for Bangerter, for visibility.

       Councilmember F. Lowry asked that if they got the height they were requesting
       but reduced the square footage from 300 to 200, would it still accomplish the
       purpose they were seeking. Mr. Abbott replied that he thought it would
       suffice. He showed an exhibit of the line of sight. Mr. Dobbins asked Mr.
       Abbott to point out the location of the sign on the exhibit.

                                                                          Page 13 of 16
       Councilmember F. Lowry said that the frontage along I-15 was different than
       in front of Bangerter.

14.3   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Ordinance #1507 with limits to
       signage square footage to 200 square feet, 136 Center Commercial Special
       District (136C-CSD). Councilmember Green seconded the motion.

14.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

15.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-63, the review of the Moderate-Income Housing
       Report 2021.

15.1   Todd Draper, planner, said they needed to do this report every year, post it,
       and send it to the state. There had been several menu items that they needed
       to select from and put into the general plan and keep track of the progress
       each year. One of the items was menu item D, considering general funds
       subsidies and sources of revenue to waive construction-related fees related to
       moderate-income housing. A consultant had been hired to do a fee study
       analysis but due to multiple large changes in state codes regarding land use in
       2021 had necessitated the reallocation of available staff to address those
       issues so they were unable to complete addressing the fee schedule changes
       that might have occurred. Menu item E was to allow for reduced regulations
       to allow for accessory buildings and units in residential zones. They had made
       good progress on this. Menu item G was to encourage higher density or
       moderate-income residential development near major transit investment
       corridors. This tied into the grant awarded by Wasatch Front Regional Council
       (WFRC) to work on the Town Center station area plan. Menu item R was about
       applying for or partnering with an entity that applied for affordable housing
       programs administered by the Department of Workforce Services. This tied to
       the interlocal agreement entered into in 2015 to send the fund balance to the
       county for providing affordable housing. Menu item U was also tied to the
       Town Center station area plan about applying for or partnering with an entity
       that applied for programs administered by a metropolitan planning
       organization or other transportation agency that applied technical assistance.
       The final piece that the report needed to include was their 5-year projections.
       The state reporting form directed them to use the calculator provided by the
       Department of Workforce Services, but this calculator had not been updated

                                                                         Page 14 of 16
       for that year, so the city had been in contact with the Department of Workforce
       Services who acknowledged that this had been a problem, so they were just
       reporting numbers that the calculator produced.

15.2   Councilmember Green moved to approve Resolution #21-63, Moderate
       Income Housing Report 2021. Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

15.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

16.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-61, adopting a Voter Participation Area map as
       required by state election law

16.1   Spencer DuShane, attorney, said that this had been covered two years ago.
       There was a statutory requirement that they create 4 voter participation areas,
       which were like districts. They needed to be contiguous, compact, and roughly
       equal in population. The intent of the statute in 2019 was that the city had a
       mandate from the state to draw Voter Participation Areas using the data from
       the 2010 census. Each year that ended in 2, by January 1st, the city needed to
       have new Voter Participation Area maps created because the population data
       was taken from the census and it took about a year to compile that data and
       send it out. This related to referenda and initiatives and the purpose of
       creating these Voter Participation Areas was so that if a citizen-led initiative
       went on the election, they could make sure that the entire city was on board
       with these changes. They would have to have a certain percentage of
       signatures from each Voter Participation Area to get a referendum on the
       ballot.   He reviewed the previous Voter Participation Areas and the
       methodology for how they were determined. There were two maps for the
       council to select between that evening. He showed the two different maps
       that they had to choose from.

162.   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Resolution #21-61 option 1,
       adopting a Voter Participation Area Map. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded
       the motion.

16.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed 4 to 1.




                                                                          Page 15 of 16
17.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1514, an ordinance of the Draper City Council
       Repealing 3-5-090 "Draper City Emergency Preparedness Committee" of the
       Draper City Municipal Code.

17.1   David Dobbins, City Manager, said that this committee had been in operation
       for a long time, but it functioned better as a working group so instead of acting
       as a committee requiring minutes and quorums, he recommended that the
       group continue to act as it had but as a working group, not a formal committee.

17.2   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1514, repealing 3-5-
       090 of the Draper City Municipal Code. Councilmember Roberts seconded the
       motion. The motion passed unanimously.

17.3   Councilmember T. Lowery asked if this stayed under the Fire Department and
       if they would supervise this. Mr. Dobbins replied yes.

18.0   Adjournment

18.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.               Councilmember
       Roberts seconded the motion.

18.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

18.3   The meeting adjourned at 9:13 p.m.




                                                                          Page 16 of 16
