                                   ORDINANCE NO. 1498

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
        AND DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 9) AND THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
        (TITLE 17) OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO
        DEFINITIONS, PERMITTED USE REVIEWS, CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS, SITE
        PLAN REVIEWS, LANDSCAPING, ADDRESSING, APPEALS, LAND USE BUFFERS,
        PARKING, LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS, SWIMMING POOLS,
        DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, AND OTHER TYPOGRAPHICAL AND DE
        MINIMUS CORRECTIONS IN CODE SECTIONS 9-3-040, 9-4-050, 9-5-070, 9-5-
        080, 9-5-090, 9-5-110, 9-5-120, 9-5-130, 9-5-140, 9-5-150, 9-5-170, 9-5-180, 9-5-
        200, 9-6-140, 9-7-100, 9-10-040, 9-10-090, 9-23-050, 9-25-050, 9-25-070, 9-25-
        090, 9-27-140, 9-27-180, 17-1-120, 17-5-030, AND 17-9-060.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

       WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness,
applicability, clarity or to comply with changes in state law; and

       WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code and the Land Development Code of
the Draper City Municipal Code (collectively the “Development Codes”) have been
established to provide regulations concerning development activity within the City
Boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Development Codes to guide
development within the City Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and
provisions of the Development Codes in response to changes in Utah State Code; and

      WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the
Development Codes; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the revision of the Development Codes.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:



Ordinance No. 1498                             1                 City Initiated Bulk Text Amendment #1
                                                                                        Text Amendment
       Section 1.     Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings regarding the proposed text amendments to the Development Codes: 1. The
proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
general plan. 2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the
Development Codes. 3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of
the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the Development
Codes. 4. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and
determined to be beneficial to public health, safety, and welfare and represent an overall
community benefit. 5. The proposed text amendments implement best current,
professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices and are
consistent with state law.

       Section 2.     Revision. Sections 9-3-040, 9-4-050, 9-5-070, 9-5-080, 9-5-090, 9-5-110,
9-5-120, 9-5-130, 9-5-140, 9-5-150, 9-5-170, 9-5-180, 9-5-200, 9-6-140, 9-7-100, 9-10-040, 9-10-
090, 9-23-050, 9-25-050, 9-25-070, 9-25-090, 9-27-140, and 9-27-180 of the Land Use and
Development Code and Section 17-1-120, 17-5-030, AND 17-9-060 of the Land Development
Code of the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 3.    Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimum errors in Exhibit A prior to
submitting the ordinance for publishing.

        Section 4.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 5.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
___________DAY OF___________, 2021.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________

Ordinance No. 1498                             2                   City Initiated Bulk Text Amendment #1
                                                                                          Text Amendment
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                             YES               NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1498                   3         City Initiated Bulk Text Amendment #1
                                                                      Text Amendment
                                       EXHIBIT A

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

…

ADVERSELY AFFECTED PARTY: A person other than a land use applicant who:

    A. Owns real property adjoining the property that is the subject of a land use
       application or land use decision, or
    B. Will suffer a damage different in kind than, or an injury distinct from, that of
       the general community as a result of the land use decision.
…

Primary Entrance: The entry point to a main building designed to receive the public.
For commercial, industrial and multi-family residential buildings the primary
entrance is usually located on the street bearing the main building’s formal postal
address. For single family and two-family dwelling units the primary entrance is
located on the street bearing the dwelling’s postal address.

…

SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided into
two (2) or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate
or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or
upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.

    A. "Subdivision" includes:

       1. The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds
          description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument,
          regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or
          lot; and

       2. Except as provided in subsection B, Ddivisions of land for all residential
          and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for
          commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.

    B. "Subdivision" does not include:

       1. A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purposed of
          joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of
          unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel
          notnor the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an
          applicable land use ordinance;
…



9-4-050: APPEALS AND VARIANCE HEARING OFFICER:

…

    H. Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer
       shall not stay proceedings taken in furtherance of the action appealed from
       unless such proceedings are specifically stayed by order of the zoning
       administrator. An appellant may request a stay by submitting to the zoning
       administrator, in writing, an application for a stay setting forth the reasons
       why a stay is necessary to protect against imminent harm. In determining
       whether or not to grant a stay, the zoning administrator shall assure that all
       potentially affected parties are given the opportunity to comment on the
       request. A ruling on the request for a stay shall be given within five (5) days
       from the date the request is received by the zoning administrator. The
       zoning administrator, in granting a stay, may impose additional conditions to
       mitigate any potential harm that may be caused by the stay, including
       requiring the appellant to post a bond. Within ten (10) days of the zoning
       administrator's decision regarding the grant or denial of a stay,
       any aggrieved adversely affected party may appeal the decision to the
       appeals and variance hearing officer, whose decision will be final.

    I. Appeals From The Appeals And Variance Hearing Officer: Any person
       aggrieved by A land use applicant or adversely affected party may file a
       petition for review of a final decision of the appeals and variance hearing
       officer and may have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in
       any court of competent jurisdiction; provided, that the petition for such relief
       is presented to the court within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision
       of the appeals and variance hearing officer.



9-5-070: PERMITTED USE REVIEWS:

…

    F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a zoning
       administrator’s decision of the zoning administrator regarding a permitted
       use permit may appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer in
       accordance with the provisions ofare governed by section 9-5-180 of this
       chapter.
…



9-5-080: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:

…

    F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a planning
       commission decision of the Planning Commission regarding the transfer,
       issuance or denial of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to
       the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer by filing written notice of appeal
       stating the grounds therefor within fourteen (14) days from the date of such
       final determinationare governed by section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

…



9-5-090: SITE PLAN REVIEW:

    A. Purpose: This section sets forth the procedures for considering and
       approving reviewing a site plan. These procedures are established to
       encourage adequate advance planning and assure a good quality of
       environment for the Cityassure that the plans meet the purposes and
       standards of the subject zone, provide for necessary public and private
       facilities, infrastructure, emergency access, geologic constraints, and other
       considerations surrounding land uses. Such procedure is intended to provide
       for orderly, harmonious, safe and functionally efficient development
       consistent with priorities, values, and guidelines stated in the various
       elements of the Draper City general plan, this title and the general welfare of
       the community. This section is not intended to so rigidly control design so as
       to stifle creativity or individual expression, or to cause substantial,
       unnecessary expense; rather, any control exercised is intended to be the
       minimum necessary to efficiently achieve the objectives stated herein.

    B. Authority: The Pplanning Ccommission and zoning administrator are is
       authorized to approve or deny site plans as provided in this section. The
       zoning administrator may refer any site plan to the planning commission for
       review if the zoning administrator determines, in their sole discretion, a
       planning commission decision would serve the best interest of the citizens of
       Draper, or if other aspects of the proposed development require planning
       commission review.
C. Initiation: A property owner, or the owner's agent, may request approval of a
   site plan as provided in subsection D(1) of this section.

   1. A site plan shall be required for any of the following uses listed in
      subsection C(2) below, unless expressly exempted from such requirement
      by another provision of this title:.

         a. Any manufacturing use.

         b. Any commercial use.

         c. Any institutional use.

         d. Any multi-family residential use.

   2. In situations requiring site plan approval, no building permit for the
      construction of any building, structure, or other improvement to the site
      shall be issued prior to approval of a site plan. No clearing, grubbing,
      grading, drainage work, parking lot construction or other site
      improvement shall be allowed prior to site plan approval.The planning
      commission shall review site plans for the following uses:

         a. Any manufacturing use.

         b. Any commercial use.

         c. Any institutional use.

         d. Any multi-family residential use

   3. A site plan for any use not listed in subsection C(2) above may be
      reviewed by the zoning administrator.

   4. No building permit for the construction of any building, structure, or
      other improvement to the site shall be issued prior to approval of a site
      plan if a site plan is required. No clearing, grubbing, grading, drainage
      work, parking lot construction or other site improvement shall be allowed
      prior to site plan approval.

D. Procedure: An application for site plan approval shall be considered and
   processed as provided in this subsection:.

   1. A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
      administrator in a form established by the administrator, along with any
      fee established by the city's schedule of feesconsolidated fee schedule.
      The application shall include the following information:
a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
   applicant's agent, if any.

b. The uses for which site plan approval is requested.

c. A certified occupancy survey at a scale no smaller than one inch equals
   one hundred feet (1" = 100') showing the deed boundary, all deed
   boundaries of adjacent parcels, and all existing natural and manmade
   features, such as fences, ditches, buildings, etc., within fifty feet (50') of
   the property line.

d. A single electronic set of development plans showing the information
   required in subsections D(1)(d)(1) to D(1)(d)(6) of this section. The
   information required by each subsection shall be shown on separate
   sheets. Plans shall be drawn at a scale no smaller than one inch equals
   one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Plan sets shall be prepared, stamped and
   signed by the professional, licensed with the state of Utah, who
   prepared the drawings or is professionally responsible for the
   drawings content, including the engineering, landscaping and
   architectural drawings. The development plans shall include:

   (1) Site plan showing the following:

       (A) All facilities related to the project located within two hundred
           fifty feet (250') of the site boundary.

       (B) Layout, dimensions, and names of existing and future road
           rights of way. (New street names must be cleared through the
           county.)

       (C) Project name, north arrow, legend and tie to a section
           monument.

       (D) The boundary lines of the project site with bearings and
           distances.

       (E) Layout and dimensions of existing and proposed streets,
           buildings, parking areas, driveways, easements, setbacks,
           overhangs for setbacks, and landscape areas.

       (F) Location, dimensions, and labeling of other features such as
           bicycle racks, dumpsters, trash cans, fences, retaining walls,
           nearest fire hydrant, signage, mechanical equipment, etc.
   (G) Location of manmade features, including irrigation facilities,
       bridges, railroad tracks, and buildings.

   (H) A tabulation table, showing total gross acreage, square footage
       of street rights of way, square footage of building footprint,
       square footage of total building floor area, square footage of
       landscaping, number of parking spaces, and square footage of
       impervious surfaces.

   (I) Identification of property, if any, not proposed for development.

   (J) Defensible space provisions and elevations, if required by the
       Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code adopted under Utah Code
       Section 15A-2-103

(2) Grading and drainage plan showing the following:

   (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.

   (B) Topography at one foot (1') intervals.

   (C) Areas of substantial earthmoving with an erosion control plan.

   (D) Location of existing watercourses, canals, ditches, springs, wells,
       culverts, and storm drains, and proposed method of dealing
       with all irrigation and wastewater.

   (E) Location of any designated floodplain and/or wetland
       boundaries.

   (F) Direction of stormwater flows, catch basins, inlets, outlets,
       waterways, culverts, detention basins, orifice plates, outlets to
       off-site facilities, and off site drainage facilities when necessary.
       Drainage plans shall facilitate a 10-year storm event. A
       maximum stormwater controlled release rate of 0.1 cubic feet
       per second per acre shall be the maximum permitted discharge
       in the Salt Lake County portion of Draper City. A maximum
       stormwater controlled release rate of 0.03 cubic feet per second
       per acre for a 10-year event and 0.06 cubic feet per second per
       acre for a 100-year event shall be the maximum discharge rates
       permitted in the Utah County portion of Draper City. However
       no discharge shall exceed demonstrated historical flows from
       any drainage or sum of drainages. Further reductions in release
      rates may be required in situations of insufficient stormwater
      system capacity.

   (G) Hydraulic and hydrologic storm drainage calculations using a
       10-year storm event. 100-year events may need to be
       accommodated in certain locations in the path of major
       drainages.

(3) Utility plan showing the following:

   (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.

   (B) All existing and proposed utilities, including, but not limited to:
       sewer, culinary water, secondary water, fire hydrants, storm
       drains, subsurface drains, gas lines, power lines,
       communications lines, cable television lines, and streetlights.

   (C) Minimum fire flow required by the current International Fire
       Code for the proposed structures, and fire flow calculations at
       all hydrant locations.

   (DC) Location and dimensions of all utility easements.

   (ED) A letter from sewer and water providers, addressing the
        feasibility and their requirements to serve the project.

(4) Landscaping plan, consistent with the requirements of chapter 23
    of this title, showing the following:

   (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.

   (B) Sprinkler system layout and type of heads.

   (C) Flow rate assumed for sprinkler system.

   (D) Plant materials and location, including species and size.

   (E) Any other information required by chapter 23 of this title.

(5) Lighting plan, consistent with the requirements of chapter 20 of this
    title.

(6) Architectural renderings (building elevations) for all buildings
    showing the following:

   (A) Accurate front, rear, and side elevations drawn to scale.
      (B) Exterior surfacing materials and colors, including roofing
          material and color.

      (C) Outdoor lighting, furnishings and architectural accents.

      (D) Location and dimensions of all signage proposed to be attached
          to the building or structure.

e. Soils report, geotechnical reports, and geologic hazard study reports as
   required elsewhere in this Title.

f. Drainage report including hydraulic and hydrologic storm drainage
   calculations. 100-year events may need to be accommodated in
   certain locations in the path of major drainages. See the Drainage
   Design Criteria for calculation requirements. Drainage plans shall
   facilitate a 10-year storm event. A maximum stormwater controlled
   release rate of 0.1 cubic feet per second per acre shall be the
   maximum permitted discharge in the Salt Lake County portion of
   Draper City. In the Utah County area of Draper City, no discharge shall
   exceed demonstrated historical flows from any drainage or sum of
   drainages. Further reductions in release rates may be required in
   situations of insufficient stormwater system capacity.

fg. Any necessary agreements with adjacent property owners regarding
    storm drainage or other pertinent matters.

gh. When the project is located within the sensitive lands overlay zone,
   additional reports as required by chapter 16 of this title.

hi. Evidence of compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws
    and regulations as may be requested by the zoning administrator.

ij. Traffic impact analysis, if requested by the city engineer or the
    planning commission.

jk. Warranty deed or pPreliminary title report or ALTA survey.

kl. Wastewater discharge approval from South Valley water reclamation
    facility, if required by the South Valley water reclamation facility.

lm. Parcel map(s) from the county recorder's office showing the subject
   property and all property located within four hundred feet (400')
   thereof.For site plans that include new proposed streets, a letter from
   the Salt Lake County Addressing department indicating that the
   proposed name is both available and has been reserved for use by the
               development. Availability or reservation of a proposed street name
               with Salt Lake County does not constitute approval of the proposed
               street name or addressing from Draper City.

         2. After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
            administrator shall schedule a public hearing before the planning
            commission as provided in section 9-5-040 of this chapter. Notice of the
            meeting should be given as provided in section 9-5-045 of this chapter.

         3. A staff report evaluating the application shall be prepared by the zoning
            administrator.

         4. The planning commission shall hold a public meeting and thereafter shall
            approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application pursuant to the
            standards set forth in subsection E of this section. Any conditions of
            approval shall be limited to conditions needed to conform the site plan to
            approval standards.

         5. After the planning commission makes a decision, the zoning
            administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the decision. The
            applicant shall provide the city a copy of the approved site plan, including
            any required corrections or revisions. Once in final, approved form, the
            site plan shall be marked "Approved" by the city.

         6. A record of all site plan approvals shall be maintained in the office of the
            zoning administrator.

…

    F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected by a decision of the
       Planning Commission regardingAppeals regarding the approval or denial of a
       site plan may appeal to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer in
       accordance withare governed by the provisions of subsection 9-5-180D1 of
       this chapter.

…

    J.   Expiration: Failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year of
         approval of any site plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the
         expiration of the one-year period, an applicant may submit a written request
         withto the community development department for a site plan extension of
         up to six (6) months. Approval of this extension may only be granted by the
         Zzoning Aadministrator or Pplanning Ccommission, whichever is the
         approval authority outlined in this section, provided the applicant can meet
       the requirements for extension under section 9-5-030 and demonstrate
       substantial action toward obtaining a land disturbance permit. If a site plan
       expires, and an applicant wishes to continue with development of the site a
       new application shall be submittedrequired. If there have been no changes
       to applicable codes which would necessitate updates to the previously
       approved plans, the applicant will be charged a new application fee of fifty
       percent (50%) of the current fee outlined in the consolidated fee schedule
       and the application shall be approved by the zoning administrator or
       Pplanning Ccommission, whichever is the approval authority outlined in this
       section, in a public meeting as an action item. If changes to the site plan are
       made by the applicant or are required due to Cchanges toin applicable codes
       that require alteration of the previously approved,the site plan shall be
       processed as a new application and is subject to a new application fee at one
       hundred percent (100%) of the current fee established in the consolidated
       fee schedule and a public hearing before the Planning Commission.



9-5-110: VARIANCES:

…

    F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a decision of
       the appeals and variance hearing officer regarding a variance may appeal
       such decision as provided inare governed by subsection 9-4-050(HI) of this
       title.

…



9-5-120: BUILDING PERMITS:

…

    F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a zoning
       administrator’s decision of the zoning administrator regarding zoning
       compliance of a building permit may appeal to the appeals and variance
       hearing officer in accordance with the provisions ofare governed by
       section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

…
9-5-130: NONCONFORMING USES:

…

    F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a zoning
       administrator’s decision of the zoning administrator regarding a
       nonconforming use may appeal such decision as provided in are governed
       by section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

…



9-5-140: SIGN PERMITS:

…

    F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a zoning
       administrator’s decision of the zoning administrator regarding a sign permit
       may appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer in accordance with
       the provisions ofare governed by section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

…



9-5-150: TEMPORARY USE PERMITS:

…

    F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a zoning
       administrator’s decision of the zoning administrator regarding a temporary
       use permit may appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer in
       accordance with the provisions ofare governed by section 9-5-180 of this
       chapter.

…



9-5-170: ADMINISTRATIVE INTERPRETATIONS:

…

    F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of an
       administrative interpretation rendered by the Zzoning Aadministrator may
       appeal to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer in accordance with the
       provisions ofare governed by section 9-5-180 of this chapter.
…



9-5-180: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:

    A. Purpose: This section sets forth procedures for appealing an administrative
       decision applying provisions of this title.

    B. Authority: The Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer shall hear and
       decide appeals from administrative decisions applying the provisions of this
       title as provided in this section.

    C. Initiation: Any personThe land use applicant, an officer of the city, or an
       adversely affected party bymay appeal a decision administering or
       interpreting a provision of this title may appeal to the Aappeals and
       Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer as provided in subsection D(1) of this section. A
       complete Notice of Appeal shall be filed within fourteenten (1410) calendar
       days of the decision being appealed.

    D. Procedure: An appeal of an administrative decision shall be considered and
       processed as provided in this subsection and shall respect the due process
       rights of the participants.

       1. A complete Notice of Appeal shall be submitted to the Office of the
          Zzoning Aadministrator on a form established by the Aadministrator
          along with the fee established by the City in its consolidated fee schedule.
          The Notice of Appeal shall include at least the following information:

          a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
             applicant's agent, if any;

          b. The decision appealed;

          c. Grounds for the appeal; and

          d. A description of the action claimed by the applicant to be incorrect.

       2. After the Notice of Appeal is determined to be complete and timely filed,
          the Zzoning Aadministrator shall coordinate with the Aappeals and
          Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer to schedule a hearing meeting. Notice of the
          hearing meeting shall be given as provided in subsection 9-4-050(EF) of
          this title. Prior to the hearing meeting the Zzoning Aadministrator shall
          transmit to the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer all papers
          constituting the record of the action which is appealed.
3. An appeal to the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer shall not stay
   proceedings taken in furtherance of the action appealed from unless such
   proceedings are specifically stayed by order of the Zzoning
   Aadministrator. An appellant may request a stay by submitting to the
   Zzoning Aadministrator, in writing, a request for a stay setting forth the
   reasons why a stay is necessary to protect against imminent harm. In
   determining whether or not to grant a stay, the Zzoning Aadministrator
   shall assure that all potentially affected parties are given the opportunity
   to comment on the request. A ruling on the request for a stay shall be
   given within five (5) days from the date the request is received by the
   Zzoning Aadministrator. The Zzoning Aadministrator, in granting a stay,
   may impose additional conditions to mitigate any potential harm that
   may be caused by the stay, including requiring the appellant to post a
   bond. Within ten (10) days of the Zzoning Aadministrator's decision
   regarding the grant or denial of a stay, any aggrieved adversely affected
   party may appeal the decision to the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing
   Oofficer with jurisdiction over the appeal, whose decision will be final.

4. The Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer shall conduct a hearing
   based upon the record only, taking no new testimony or new information
   but relying solely upon the information and final decision of the officer or
   body from whom the appeal was taken. The appellant has the burden of
   proving that the officer or body erred. In conducting the appeal hearing
   the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer shall:

   a. Determine whether the record on appeal includes substantial
      evidence for each essential finding of fact;

   b. Determine the correctness of the officer or body's interpretation and
      application of the plain meaning of the land use regulations and
      thereafter affirm or reverse, wholly or in part, the lower decision,
      modify that decision, or impose any conditions needed to conform the
      matter appealed to applicable approval standards; and

   c. Interpret and apply a land use regulation to favor a land use
      application unless the land use regulation plainly restricts the land use
      application.

5. The Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer shall have all the powers
   of the officer or body from whom the appeal was taken and may issue or
   direct the issuance of a permit.
       6. After the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer makes a decision, the
          Zzoning Aadministrator shall give the applicant written notice of the
          decision. The decision takes effect on the date when the Aappeal
          Aauthority issues a written decision.

       7. A record of all appeals shall be maintained in the Office of the Zzoning
          Aadministrator.

…



9-5-200: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:

…

    D. Limitations:

       1.    A development agreement under this section may not:

            a.   Limit the City’s authority in the future to:

                 i.(1) Enact a land use regulation; or

                 ii.(2) Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-
                      8-84, as amended;

            b.    Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land
                 within the City in the future; or

            c.    Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set
                 forth in an existing land use regulation that governs the area subject
                 to the development agreement, unless the city council approves the
                 development agreement in accordance with the same procedures for
                 enacting a land use regulation under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-
                 9a-502, including a review and recommendation from the planning
                 commission and a public hearing.

…



9-6-140: APPEALS:

Any person aggrieved adversely affected party by a decision of the zoning
administrator or other official enforcing the provisions of this chapter may appeal
for relief therefrom to the appeals and variance hearing officer as provided in this
title.



9-7-100: APPEALS:

Any person aggrieved adversely affected party by a decision of the zoning
administrator or other official enforcing the provisions of this chapter may appeal
for relief therefrom to the appeals and variance hearing officer as provided in this
title.



9-10-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

Development standards within residential zones shall be as set forth in section 9-
10-090, table 9-10-3 of this chapter, and in this section. (Ord. 394, 8-7-2001)

   A. Accessory Buildings: The following requirements shall apply to any accessory
      building in a residential zone:

      1. All accessory buildings, regardless of size, shall be subject to the following
         regulations:

         a. An accessory building shall not encroach upon any easement or right
            of way, except as provided in section 9-27-070 of this title.

         b. The combined square footage of all detached accessory buildings shall
            not exceed eight percent (8%) of the total lot area.

         c. Accessory buildings shall not be located within ten feet (10') of any
            dwelling or building located upon an adjoining lot.

         d. Accessory buildings shall be set at least six feet (6') from the main
            building. (Ord. 769, 8-7-2007)

         e. Accessory buildings on a corner lot shall meet the same front yard
            setbacks as the main building. For purposes of locating an accessory
            building on a corner lot, the "front wall plane" is the plane of the main
            building containing the primary entrance. "Primary entrance" is the
            entry point to the main building designed to receive the public. It is
            usually located on the street bearing the main building's formal postal
            address.
         f. In no case shall an accessory building be built into the required front
            yard setback.

         g. Separate meter connections for water, sewer, or gas utilities shall not
            be permitted for any accessory building.

…



9-10-090: USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLES:

…
TABLE 9-10-3
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Development         Zones
Standard

                    RA1      RA2      RH       R3       R4       R5      RM1      RM2

Lot standards1:

Minimum area,       40,000   20,000   40,000   13,000   10,000   8,000   6,000    4,000
single-family       s.f.     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.    s.f.     s.f.
dwelling

Minimum lot area,   40,000   20,000   40,000   13,000   n/a      n/a     12,000   12,000
single dwelling     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.                      s.f.     s.f.
unit with
accessory
dwelling unit

Minimum area,       40,000   20,000   40,000   13,000   NP       NP      10,000   8,000
two-family          s.f.     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.                      s.f.     s.f.
dwelling

Minimum project     NP       NP       NP       NP       NP       NP      1 acre   1 acre
area, multiple-
family dwelling

Minimum area,       NP       NP       NP       NP       NP       NP      1,000    1,000
townhouse                                                                s.f.     s.f.
dwelling
Minimum area,       40,000     20,000     40,000     13,000     10,000     8,000      n/a        n/a
other main          s.f.       s.f.       s.f.       s.f.       s.f.       s.f.
buildings

Maximum lot         4.0 to 1   3.0 to 1   4.0 to 1   2.0 to 1   2.0 to 1   2.0 to 1   5.0 to 1   5.0 to 1
depth (as a
multiple of lot
width at widest
point)

Minimum lot         50'        50'        50'        50'        50'        50'        n/a        n/a
frontage

Minimum lot         100'       90'        100'       80'        80'        70'        n/a        n/a
width2

Building
standards:

Maximum             1          2          1          3          4          5          8          12
dwelling unit       du/acre    du/acre    du/acre    du/acre    du/acre    du/acre    du/acre    du/acre
density per acre

Maximum square      40%        40%        40%        40%        40%        40%        n/a        n/a
footage of floor
area at ground
level (including
garages) as a
percentage of lot
area

Maximum height,     35'        35'        35'        35'        35'        35'        35'        35'
main building

Maximum height,     See subsection 9-10-040(A) of this chapter
accessory
buildings

Setback
standards - front
yard3:
Main buildings on   30'       30'        30'        25'     25'   25'   n/a20’5   n/a20’5
interior and
corner lots4

Accessory           See subsection 9-10-040(A) of this chapter
buildings

Swimming pools      See section 9-27-180 of this title

Setback
standards - rear
yard3:

Main buildings on   20'       20'        20'        20'     20'   20'   n/a20’5   n/a20’5
interior lots4

Main buildings on   12'       12'        12'        10'     8'    8'    n/a6’5    n/a5’5
corner lots4

Accessory           See subsection 9-10-040(A) of this chapter
buildings

Barns and stables   See section 9-27-050 of this title

Swimming pools      See section 9-27-180 of this title

Setback
standards - side
yard3:

Main buildings on   12'       12'        12'        10'     8'    8'    n/a6’5    n/a5’5
interior lots4

Accessory           See subsection 9-10-040(A) of this chapter
buildings

Barns and stables   See section 9-27-050 of this title

Swimming pools      See section 9-27-180 of this title



Notes:
 1. Minimum required lot area on private right-of-way or access easement shall
be net area, excluding any area of the lot located within a private right-of-way or
access easement.
  2. Corner lots should be platted 10 feet wider than interior lots of subdivisions
to accommodate 2 front yards in accordance with section 17-5-020 of this Code.
  3. Except as modified by the provisions of section 9-27-140, "Lots And Yards", of
this title.
  4. Except as modified by the provisions of subsection 9-27-140(G), "Setback
Measurement", of this title.
  5. Setbacks between building units (i.e., fourplex, sixplex, etc.) as well as
setbacks for all buildings (clubhouses, building units, etc.) from project boundaries
Listed setbacks are applicable to Single-family or Two-family dwellings on individual
lots, for Multiple-Family dwellings and developments the setbacks shall be
determined at site plan approval in accordance with the provisions of subsection 9-
32-030 of this Title.



9-23-050: SITE DESIGN CRITERIA:
…
   H. Storm Water Infrastructure: Detention and retention basins shall be
      landscaped and maintained. The use of low impact development systems
      and techniques to encourage infiltration, evapotranspiration, and reuse of
      storm water is required.
…


9-25-050: PARKING LOCATION:

…

    C. On Street Parking For Nonresidential Uses: On street parking associated with
       uses in nonresidential zones is prohibited but may be permitted and counted
       toward satisfaction of required parking when:

       1. Such parking is prescribed by the master transportation plan and
          implemented as a part of an approved right of way cross section;

       2. The use to be directly associated with such parking is a nonresidential use
          that:

          a. Is to be conducted in a structure that is converted from a residential
             structure;

          b. Can be designed to accommodate such parking without restricting the
             current or planned travel lanes of the fronting right of way;
      c. Can be designed to accommodate such parking without creating any
         nonconformity in the development of the site; and

      d. Can be designed to accommodate such parking without necessity of a
         deviation from strict compliance for parking; or

   3. The site can be designed to accommodate such parking as a part of but
      outside the planned right of way travel and bike lanes without the
      creation of any nonconformity or the necessity of a deviation from strict
      compliance for parking.

DC. Shared Use Parking: A shared use parking study must be submitted for
   review for approval of shared use parking. The study must be reviewed by
   the zoning administrator to determine whether the uses will make use of the
   shared spaces at different times of the day, week, month, or year. The
   planning commission, following a recommendation from the zoning
   administrator, may authorize shared use of a parking area subject to the
   following conditions:

   1. The uses sharing the parking area are unlikely to produce a substantial
      competing demands that exceed the available parking during the same
      hours for parking at the same time;

   2. Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities shall not
      be reduced; and

   3. Ongoing shared use of the parking area is assured by an agreement
      reviewed and accepted by the city which provides at least the following:

      a. The parking area shall be continuously available unless an alternative
         parking area is provided;

      b. All spaces shall be available without charge;

      c. All parking spaces shall be available perpetually to all uses utilizing the
         parking; and

      d. Additional parking shall be provided up to the amount otherwise
         required under this chapter if the zoning administrator determines,
         based on parking counts, that a shared parking area does not satisfy
         the off street parking demand of the uses involved.

ED. Temporary Parking:
   1. Temporary parking, when approved as part of a temporary use or special
      event, shall be exempt from the landscaping and paving requirements of
      this chapter, but must comply with all access and surfacing requirements
      for fire and public safety purposes.

   2. The city may allow a temporary use or special event, approved pursuant
      to title 6, chapter 16 or 17 of this code respectively, to occupy or use
      parking areas ordinarily required for a permanent use if it is found that
      the temporary use will not cause a shortage in parking needed for the
      permanent use.

FE. Vacant Lots And Open Land: Vacant lots and open land areas shall not be
    used as parking areas, except as allowed for a temporary use or special
    event.

GF. Parking For Residential Uses: All parking associated with residential uses
   shall be according to the following:

   1. All residential uses shall provide on-site hard surfaced parking in
      accordance with section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1 of this chapter.

   2. Front yards and side yards of residential uses shall not be used for
      parking unless hard surfaced.

   3. There shall be no permanent on street parking in residential zones.

   4.    Required parking for single-family dwellings shall be provided within an
        enclosed garage.

   5. Required parking for an approved accessory dwelling unit shall not be
      required to be within an enclosed garage but shall be provided in a hard
      surfaced area.

   6. Multi-family dwellings designed to include enclosed garages may count
      the number of spaces within the garage toward the parking requirement
      when the garage is designed in compliance with subsection 9-25-070(A)(3)
      of this chapter and approved as a part of a site plan or site plan
      amendment.

HG. Parking Of Recreational Vehicles In Residential Zones: Personal recreational
  vehicles, including, but not limited to, trailers, boats, travel trailers, boats,
  watercraft, utility trailers, and motor homes parked in residential zones shall
  be parked on a hard surfaced area behind the front wall plane of the primary
  structure on the same property. Parking for such vehicles within residential
   developments approved with off street recreational vehicle parking areas
   shall be allowed within those recreational vehicle parking areas only.

IH. Heavy Vehicle Parking:

   1. Fifteen Thousand Pounds Or Less: Vehicles with a gross vehicle weight
      rating or gross vehicle weight of fifteen thousand (15,000) pounds or less
      may be parked in any zone according to the terms of this code.

   2. More Than Fifteen Thousand But Less Than Twenty Six Thousand:
      Vehicles, other than recreational vehicles, with a gross vehicle weight
      rating or gross vehicle weight of more than fifteen thousand (15,000)
      pounds and twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds or less may be parked
      in residential zones when said vehicles are parked within an enclosed
      building or:

      a. Are operable;

      b. Maintain proper and current licensure and registration;

      c. Are located on a property containing an occupied primary structure;

      d. Are parked on a hard surfaced area of the property;

      e. Are parked behind the front wall plane of the primary structure on the
         property; and

      f. Are parked behind a site obscuring fence at least six feet (6') in height.

   3. Commercial Vehicle Parking: Commercial vehicles, commercial trailers,
      and semitrailers shall not be parked in any residential zone, on any public
      right of way in any zone, or along any collector or arterial street in any
      zone, except while actually loading or unloading cargo on or in said
      vehicle.

      a. An owner of residential property may park a truck-tractor on their
         property in any residential zone when it is detached from any trailer
         and parked subject to the provisions of subsection I(2) of this section.

      b. An owner of residential property desiring to locate up to three (3)
         commercial vehicles, other than truck-tractors, on property they own
         may apply and be approved for a conditional use permit when the
         planning commission finds:

         (1) The property is located within the RA1 or RA2 zone;
      (2) Commercial vehicles to be parked on the property remain operable
          and licensed at all times;

      (3) The property is of sufficient size to accommodate the number of
          commercial vehicles requested;

      (4) The commercial vehicles will be parked on the property in
          accordance with subsection I(2) of this section; and

      (5) The allowed commercial vehicles will not be in addition to any
          approved equipment vehicles allowed under the terms of
          subsection I(4) of this section or commercial trailers allowed under
          the terms of subsection I(5) of this section.

4. Contracting And Earthmoving Equipment: Contracting and earthmoving
   equipment not legal for over the road travel shall not be parked in a
   residential zone even if parked on a trailer hauling or transporting said
   equipment unless they are parked outside of any right of way on the site
   of an active construction or development project and are being used as a
   part of that construction or development work. An owner of residential
   property desiring to locate up to three (3) backhoes, loaders, excavation,
   or similar equipment vehicles on property they own may apply and be
   approved for a conditional use permit when the planning commission
   finds:

   a. The property is located within the RA1 or RA2 zone;

   b. Equipment vehicles to be parked on the property remain operable at
      all times;

   c. The property is of sufficient size to accommodate the number of
      equipment vehicles requested;

   d. The equipment vehicles will be parked on the property in accordance
      with subsection I(2) of this section;

   e. The equipment vehicles have an engine horsepower rating below one
      hundred (100) horsepower or a load lifting capacity below seven
      thousand five hundred (7,500) pounds, whichever is lower; and

   f. The allowed equipment vehicles will not be in addition to any
      approved commercial vehicles allowed under the terms of subsection
      I(3)(b) of this section or commercial trailers allowed under the terms of
      subsection I(5) of this section.
       5. Trailers: Trailers of any size not hitched to a pulling vehicle shall not be
          parked within any right of way. Semitrailers and commercial trailers may
          not be parked in any residential zone unless hitched to a truck-tractor or
          pulling vehicle that is actually loading or unloading cargo on or in said
          vehicle. An owner of residential property desiring to locate up to three (3)
          commercial trailers on property they own may apply and be approved for
          a conditional use permit when the planning commission finds:

          a. The property is located within the RA1 or RA2 zone;

          b. Commercial trailers to be parked on the property remain operable and
             licensed at all times;

          c. The property is of sufficient size to accommodate the number of
             commercial trailers requested;

          d. The commercial trailers will be parked on the property in accordance
             with subsection I(2) of this section; and

          e. The allowed commercial will not be in addition to any approved
             commercial vehicles allowed under the terms of subsection I(3)(b) of
             this section or equipment vehicles allowed under the terms of
             subsection I(4) of this section.

    JI. Parking On Park Strips And Sidewalks: Vehicles, trailers, recreational vehicles
        or other motorized forms of transportation shall not be parked on, over, or
        within the sidewalk or park strip area between the sidewalk and the street in
        any zone.

    KJ. Development Parking: Parking within and between nonresidential
        developments is strongly encouraged to be provided in a manner that
        provides for a cohesive environment between adjacent developments.
        Placement of parking for adjacent nonresidential developments are strongly
        encouraged to locate parking between the buildings and away from streets
        frontages to the greatest extent possible.

…



9-25-070: PARKING DIMENSIONS:
    A. Parking Space Dimensions: Minimum parking space and related dimensions
       shall be as set forth herein and as shown on section 9-25-100, table 9-25-
       2 and figure 9-25-4 of this chapter:

       …

       9. Sites containing fifty (50) or more parking spaces may provide compact
          parking spaces for a portion of the required parking for the site. Compact
          parking, when proposed, shall adhere to the following:

           a. Compact parking spaces may be utilized to provide up to a maximum
              of ten percent (10%) of the total parking requirement for the site.:

              (1) A maximum of ten percent (10%) of the total parking requirement
                  for the site; or

              (2) A maximum of twenty five percent (25%) of the total parking
                  requirement for the site when combined with the following:

                 (A) A landscaped plaza area near the primary entrance to the
                     building associated with compact parking spaces that is equal in
                     area to fifteen percent (15%) of the total building square
                     footage;

                 (B) Pedestrian amenities, such as, but not limited to, benches,
                     throughout the plaza; and

                 (C) Pedestrian pathways from the primary entrance to and through
                     the plaza which connect to street sidewalks and neighboring
                     sites or uses; and

           b. All compact parking spaces shall:

              (1) Measure no less than eight feet six inches (8'6") wide and sixteen
                  feet (16') deep;

              (2) Be clearly identified and shown on an approved site plan or site
                  plan amendment; and Be located near the primary entrance of
                  each building on site;

              (3) Be marked on the surface as "Compact".Be clearly identified and
                  shown on an approved site plan or site plan amendment; and

              (4) Be marked on the surface as "Compact".

…
9-25-090: DEVIATIONS FROM STRICT COMPLIANCE FOR PARKING:

  A. Natural Adjustment Range: In recognition that many factors can be unique to
     various potential uses of land in the city, parking requirements established in
     section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1 of this chapter, may be modified to increase or
     decrease the parking calculation requirements by a maximum ten percent
     (10%) without necessity of requesting a formal modification as outlined in
     this section. Parking requirements for residential uses listed in section 9-25-
     100, table 9-25-1 may not be modified under the provisions of the natural
     adjustment range.

  B. Deviations From Strict Compliance: The number of parking spaces required
     under section 9-25-060 of this chapter, or the parking calculation
     requirements shown in section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1 of this chapter, may be
     deviated in accordance with the provisions in this section. The purpose of
     such a deviation is to provide flexibility beyond natural adjustments to this
     chapter in order to adapt to specific circumstances, reduce potential
     environmental impacts, and conserve resources. In cases where parking in
     amounts other than required herein may be appropriate, the planning
     commission may approve a request for a modification, by way of a parking
     study, to increase or reduce parking requirements based on findings found
     in subsection C of this section. When a deviation from strict compliance is
     approved by the planning commission, parking shall be provided according
     to the standard approved under that deviation with a natural adjustment
     that only provides for parking closer to the requirement being deviated. A
     deviation from strict compliance as outlined in this section is not necessary
     for a proposed increase in parking for residential uses.

  C. Parking Study: When a parking study is required for a request to deviate
     from the parking requirements calculated according to section 9-25-
     100, table 9-25-1 of this chapter, or when an applicant requests a deviation in
     the number of parking spaces required under section 9-25-060 of this
     chapter, a parking study shall be prepared and submitted by the applicant
     for review. Parking studies shall be prepared by a professional engineer
     licensed to work in the state of Utah and reviewed as a part of a site plan
     application.
1. Requirements: The study shall provide:

   a. Planning and traffic engineering data, including estimates of parking
      demand based on the most current recommendations from the
      Institute Of Transportation Engineers;

   b. Data collected from uses or combinations of uses that are the same or
      highly comparable to the proposed application as indicated and
      justified by density, scale, bulk, area, type of activity, and location;

   c. The source of data used to develop the study's recommendations;

   d. A recommendation for parking requirements or calculations applicable
      to the site for which the study is being prepared based on site specific
      factors, data, circumstances, and conditions compared against study
      collected data; and

   e. The name and qualifications of the persons preparing the study.

2. Review And Recommendation: City staff shall review the study and make
   a recommendation to the planning commission concerning the validity of
   the parking study, the appropriateness of the conclusions reached, and
   the appropriate number of parking spaces that should be required.

3. Number Of Parking Spaces: The planning commission shall determine the
   required number of parking spaces after:

   a. Considering the recommendations of the parking study and city staff;
      and

   b. Making the findings required under subsection C(4) of this section,
      according to the type of application.

4. Findings Required: The planning commission may approve a deviation
   from strict compliance for the number of parking spaces required or the
   calculation used only after making the findings of this subsection:

   a. For commercial, retail, office, and mixed use developments, the
      planning commission must find that:

      (1) Adequate parking will be provided;
   (2) The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for
       each individual establishment in the development is overly
       burdensome for the site specific factors of the application;

   (3) Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when
       others are closed will not overburden the parking provided;

   (4) There is an adequate availability of approved on street or shared
       parking for all associated uses;

   (5) Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for
       compliance with the parking calculation used or parking
       requirements outlined in section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1 of this
       chapter;

   (6) Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations,
       provide adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking;
       and

   (7) Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development
       will have or will provide adequate parking for that expansion or
       addition;

   (8) ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for
       adjustment; or

b. For multi-family or planned residential developments, the planning
   commission must find that:

   (1) Adequate parking will be provided;

   (2) The size of housing units, considered by the number of bedrooms
       and required visitor parking, does not support the calculated
       parking requirements of this chapter;

   (3) The size of project does not warrant the calculated parking
       requirements of this chapter;

   (4) The specific parking dedicated for use by visitors and recreational
       vehicles is appropriate;

   (5) Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development
       will have or will provide adequate parking for that expansion or
       addition;
             (6) Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations,
                 provide adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking;

             (7) ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for
                 adjustment;

             (8) Restrictive covenants specific to the development make provisions
                 to control parking such that parking for the development will not
                 impact neighboring properties or public rights of way; and

             (9) The availability of approved on street parking can be utilized for
                 required visitor parking or to offset the requested deviation.



9-27-140: LOTS AND YARDS:

…

    C. Substandard Lots: No lot or parcel having less than the minimum width and
       area required by the zone where it is located may be divided from a larger
       parcel of land, whether by subdivision or metes and bounds, for the purpose,
       whether immediate or future, of building or development as a lot except as
       permitted by this section or by the appeals and variance hearing officer
       pursuant to the requirements of this title.

       1. (Reserved) (Rep. by Ord. 1408, 10-15-2019)

       21. If a portion of a lot or parcel of land which meets minimum lot area
          requirements is acquired for public use in any manner, including
          dedication,by condemnation or purchase, and such acquisition reduces
          the minimum area required, the remainder of such lot or parcel shall
          nevertheless be considered as having the required minimum lot area if all
          of the following conditions are met:

          a. Such lot or parcel contains a rectangular space of at least thirty by
             forty feet (30 x 40') exclusive of applicable front and side yard
             requirements, and exclusive of one-half (1/2) of the applicable rear yard
             requirements, and such rectangular space is usable for a principal use
             or structure.

          b. The remainder of such lot or parcel of land has an area of at least one-
             half (1/2) of the required lot area of the zone in which it is located.
           c. The remainder of such lot or parcel of land has access to a public
              street with a width of not less than twenty feet (20').

           d. The acquisition or dedication of land for public use is not connected
              with an application filed under Title 9 or Title 17 of this code.

.…



9-27-180: SWIMMING POOLS:

Swimming pools of permanent construction not enclosed within a building shall be
set back at least five feet (5') from all property lines and shall be completely
surrounded by a fence or wall having a lockable self-closing gate and a height of at
least six feet (6') which conforms to international building code requirements. This
required fence or wall may encompass any amount of the lot or parcel, except that
a swimming pool on the same lot and which is accessory to a dwelling unit shall not
be located within the front yard setback. For purposes of locating swimming pools
on corner lots, a corner lot shall have one "front", which is defined as parallel with
the side of the structure containing the primary entrance. A swimming pool shall
not be located within a public utility easement or clear view area (section 9-27-
080 of this chapter) located along the side or rear property lines without prior
written permission of all affected utility companies or in accordance with section 9-
27-070 of this chapter.

     A. Outdoor Pools:

        1. Private residential swimming pools, residential swimming pools, or public
           swimming pools (collectively “pools”) of permanent construction not
           enclosed within a building shall comply with section 305 Barrier
           Requirements and section 321 Lighting Requirements of the International
           Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ICC-ISPSC) as currently adopted by the
           State of Utah.

        2. Pools accessory to multi-family dwellings and public swimming pools shall
           submit evidence of plan approval from the respective health department
           at the time of the building permit.

     B. Setbacks and Location:

        1. Pools not enclosed within a building shall be set back from property lines
           a minimum of five feet (5’).
     2. Pools which are accessory to a dwelling unit shall not be located within
        the front yard setback. Exceptions for Corner lots are permitted as
        described in 9-27-180(C) below.

     3. Pools and pool equipment shall not be located within a clear view area as
        described in section 9-27-080 of this chapter or a public utility easement
        located along the side or rear property lines without prior written
        permission of all affected utility companies or in accordance with
        section 9-27-070 of this chapter.

  C. Corner Lots:

     1. For purposes of locating pools on corner lots, each front yard shall be
        designated as either the primary front yard or a secondary front yard. The
        primary front yard shall be the front yard most parallel with the side of
        the structure containing the primary entrance.

     2. A pool may be located within a secondary front yard setback on a corner
        lot as designated in 9-27-180(C)(1) above.



17-1-120: APPEALS:

  A. Appeal may be made to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer from any
     decision, determination or requirement of the Zoning Administrator or
     Planning Commission hereunder by filing with the community development
     department an application and notice thereof in writing within fifteenten
     (1510) calendar days after such decision, determination or requirement is
     made. Such notice shall set forth in detail the action and grounds upon which
     the subdivider or other adversely affected party person deems himself or
     herself aggrieved themselves adversely affected.

  B. The Zoning Administrator shall set the appeal for hearing before the Appeals
     and Variance Hearing Officer within a reasonable time after receipt of the
     appeal. Such hearing may be continued by order of the Appeals and Variance
     Hearing Officer. The appellant shall be notified of the appeal hearing date at
     least seven (7) calendar days prior to the hearing. After hearing the appeal,
     the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer may affirm, modify, or reverse the
     decision, determination or requirement appealed and enter any such orders
     as are in harmony with the spirit and purpose of this title. The Appeals and
     Variance Hearing Officer shall notify the appellant in writing of its ruling. The
       filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings and actions in furtherance of the
       matter appealed, pending a decision of the Appeals and Variance Hearing
       Officer.

    C. An aggrieved adversely affected party may appeal the Appeals and Variance
       Hearing Officer's decision to District Court as provided in Utah Code
       Annotated title 10, chapter 9a.



17-5-030: STREETS:

…

    H. Fire Apparatus Access Roads: Fire apparatus access is essential to successful
       fire-fighting and rescue operations. Fire department vehicles vary widely in
       size and operational needs and must be able to maneuver into position to
       properly undertake their fire-fighting activities. The needs of the city will
       therefore vary with the equipment used include those from mutual-aid
       companies that may respond from outside the city. Access roads must be
       designed to provide the fire department with the required access to all
       structures on a site.

       1. All fire apparatus access roads must meet the requirements of this
          section and applicable requirements of international fire code, including
          appendix D.

       2. Facilities, buildings or portions of buildings hereafter constructed shall be
          accessible to fire department apparatus by way of an approved fire
          apparatus access road with an asphalt, concrete or other approved
          driving surface capable of supporting the imposed load of fire apparatus
          weighing up to 75,000 pounds.

       3. Where a fire hydrant is located on a fire apparatus access road, the
          minimum road width shall be twenty-six (26) feet, exclusive of shoulders.

       4. Fire apparatus access roads shall not exceed ten (10) percent in grade,
          except as specifically modified elsewhere in this title, or as approved by
          the fire marshal.

       5. The minimum turning radius for fire apparatus access shall be twenty-
          eight (28) feet, unless a different radius is approved by the fire marshal.

       6. Dead end fire apparatus access roads shall meet the following minimum
          paved widths and include turnarounds according to the following:
           a. For fire apparatus access roads up to one-hundred fifty (150) feet in
              length a minimum paved width of twenty (20) feet is required.

           b. For fire apparatus access roads between one-hundred fifty-one (151)
              feet and five-hundred (500) feet in length a minimum paved width of
              twenty (20) feet and a minimum one-hundred twenty (120) foot
              hammerhead, sixty (60) foot “Y”, or ninety-six (96) foot diameter cul-de-
              sac are required. See Figure 17-5-1.

           c. For fire apparatus access roads between five-hundred one (501) feet
              and seven-hundred fifty (750) feet in length a minimum paved width of
              twenty-six (26) feet and a minimum one-hundred twenty (120) foot
              hammerhead, sixty (60) foot “Y”, or ninety-six (96) foot diameter cul-de-
              sac are required. See Figure 17-5-1.

           d. For fire apparatus access roads over seven-hundred fifty (750) feet in
              length special approval of the fire marshal is required.

       7. If a fire apparatus access road is gated, the road and gate shall comply
          with the requirements of subsection 9-27-200 of this title.

       8. Fire apparatus access roads shall be marked with permanent NO
          PARKING-FIRE LANE signs complying with Figure 17-5-2. Signs shall have a
          minimum dimension of twelve (12) inches wide by eighteen (18) inches
          high and have red littersletters on a white reflective background.

       …



17-9-060: PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS:

…

    C. To make a parcel boundary adjustment, a property owner shall execute a
       boundary adjustment through a quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement
       and record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement with the county
       recorder.

       1. A Parcel boundary adjustment is not subject to the city’s review unless
          any of the subject parcels contain a dwelling unit.

       2. Parcel boundary adjustments that require review by the city shall:

           a. Be filed jointly by the owners of both subject properties.
    b. Include a boundary line agreement that complies with the provisions
       of Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-524(2), as amended.

3. Within 14 days from the receipt of a complete application for a parcel
   boundary adjustment, the zoning administrator or designee shall review
   and approve applications that comply with the following requirements:

    a. No additional parcels will result from the adjustment.

    b. Existing dwelling unit(s) and other structures on the parcel(s) will
       maintain compliance with the current setbacks for the zoning district
       in which they are located. Where existing dwelling unit(s) or structures
       are nonconforming as to current setback requirements, the amount or
       degree of nonconformity will not increase as a result of the parcel
       boundary adjustment.

    c. The proposed parcel boundary adjustment will not create a violation
       of any land use ordinance or other city ordinances.

4. If the zoning administrator or their designee finds that an application is
   deficient or if additional information is required to approve the boundary
   line agreement, they shall provide written notice to the property owners
   of the deficiency or additional information required within the 14-day
   timeframe from the date of the initial submittal. Such notice shall include
   the following:

    a. A description of the specific deficiency or additional information
       required.

    b. A statement that the boundary line agreement will be approved upon
       the correction of the deficiency or submission of the additional
       information.

    c. A statement that failure to correct the deficiency or provide the
       additional information may result in denial and/or expiration of the
       application.

5. Upon receipt of the information requested in subsection (C)(4) above, the
   zoning administrator or designee shall review the complete application
   according to the provisions of subsection (C)(3) above.

…
