Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: September 7, 2021
Re: City Initiated Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment that includes multiple changes to Title 9 of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) related to  exemptions from the title, definitions, administrative and development review procedures, second kitchens in single-family dwellings, and accessory dwelling units. These ordinance changes are necessary in part to bring the DCMC into compliance with the requirements of H.B. 82 passed by the Utah State Legislature during the 2021 legislative session.
The Planning Commission heard this item at their August 12, 2021 meeting and unanimously forwarded a positive recommendation on the application.
Staff recommends that the Draper City Council consider the attached ordinance at their September 7, 2021 meeting together with the public hearing and the Resolution 21-47 and after the public hearing has been held, continue both items to the September 21, 2021 meeting for a final decision by the Council.  The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the Land Use and Development Code.
3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the Land Use and Development Code.
4. The proposed amendments will not create a conflict with any other section or part of the Land Use and Development Code or General Plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined to be beneficial to public health, safety, and welfare and represent an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed amendments implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices and are consistent with state law.
7. The proposed amendments implement changes in state law.
For Denial:
1. The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendments do not further the specific purpose statements of the Land Use and Development Code.
3. The proposed amendments are not appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the Land Use and Development Code.
4. The proposed amendments will create a conflict with another section or part of the Land Use and Development Code or General Plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and are not determined to be beneficial to public health, safety, and welfare do not represent an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed amendments do not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices and are not consistent with state law.
7. The proposed amendments do not implement changes in state law.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1499 9/2/2021 Cover Memo Exhibit A - Map 9/2/2021 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 9/2/2021 Cover Memo