                                   EXHIBIT “A”

   DRAPER CITY MEMORIAL BENCH NAMING AND INSTALLATION POLICY



Placement of Privately-Donated Benches on City Property


RESPONSIBLE CITY DEPARTMENT: Parks and Recreation                  Draft
1. General:

1.1 Draper City (the “City”) recognizes that its public parks are public forums for
free expression activities. The City also recognizes that it may exercise its own
government speech in certain situations, including the placement of benches
with plaques or engraved wording under this policy.

1.2 On occasion the City receives requests by private persons or entities to allow
the placement of a bench with a plaque in a City park, cemetery, trail or trail
head, or recreational space.

1.3 The City has an important interest in avoiding overcrowding, clutter, or
saturation of City parks, cemeteries and recreational spaces with donated
benches.

1.4 The City desires to set forth a policy that will guide the City’s decisions
regarding whether to allow the placement of such benches in City parks and
recreational spaces, and allow a citizen to reasonably conform with the policy
in making a request for a bench.

1.5 The City may exercise selectivity and place some, but not all, offered
privately funded benches in City parks, cemeteries and recreational
spaces. The final decision regarding whether to accept a particular offer to
place a bench will be made by the City’s Parks and Recreation Director.

1.6 The City may select or deny locations for benches as the City believes is
appropriate for the park in question, taking into account such factors as
aesthetics, history, and local culture. The placement of and messages
conveyed on benches is meant to convey (and have the effect of conveying)
the City’s message, which constitutes government speech of the City.

1.7 The City may prohibit privately donated benches in City parks or recreational
spaces where conservation easements or identified conservation values require
protecting the land in a predominantly undeveloped state.

1.8 While this policy specifically mentions parks and other recreational areas, it
may also apply to cemeteries, trails, and trail heads.
2. Purpose:


The Purpose of this policy is to:

2.1 Establish the objectives for the acceptance and placement of donated
benches in the City’s parks and recreational spaces insofar as permitted by law
and by contract.

2.2 Define the criteria the City will use in accepting benches that individuals,
groups and businesses would like to donate to the City.

2.3 Establish the application requirements for an individual, group, or business
requesting the placement of a bench in a City park.

2.4 Guide the City in determining the appropriate location for the proposed
bench.

2.5 Ensure that the design, placement and appearance of the bench is
consistent with the community interest, park function and the natural
environment.


3. Objective:

Proposed benches with accompanying plaques shall:

3.1 Be consistent, in the City’s judgment, with the intended purpose of the City’s
parks or recreational spaces and their surrounding environment.

3.2 Enhance the landscape value of the City’s property.

3.3 Encourage community engagement in the enhancement of the City’s parks
   and recreational spaces.

3.4 Not detract, in the opinion of the City, from the environment in which the
   bench is placed.


4. Acceptance Criteria:

The City will use the following criteria in evaluating proposed benches:

4.1 Any proposed bench must:

          a. Demonstrate some specific justification for being located at the proposed
             site.

          b. Be consistent with the city council's approved plans for the proposed site
             or facility.
         c. Not compromise the amenity value, aesthetic integrity or character of the
            proposed site.

         d. Not interfere with existing and proposed usage patterns, and circulation
            at the site and must not pose any safety risk to users of the site or facility.

         e. Be compatible and at a design and quality level commensurate with the
            location or setting of the site and must be compatible with the
            surroundings.

 4.2 Benches will only be considered for placement by the City if they do one of
the following:
          a. Commemorate places or historical events of national or local
             significance.

         b. Commemorate a community association and/or group that has
            contributed significantly to Draper.

         c. Commemorate a deceased individual with a significant nexus to
            Draper at least one year after death and only with the consent of
            the decedent’s immediate family.

4.3 In exercise of government speech, the City may allow donors to place a
small recognition plaque or have wording engraved/cut out on the bench. The
City will determine the size of the donor recognition plaque or engraving area.

      a. Messages on benches that the City believes would be considered offensive
         to the inhabitants of the City are prohibited.

      b. Messages that promote a political cause, issue or event will not be
         considered for placement on benches.

      c. Messages that infringe on copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property
         rights will not be considered for placement on benches.

      d. The City shall not place a bench in a City park with a message that favors
         one religion or a particular religious belief or results in an excessive
         entanglement of the City with any religion.

5. Assessment and Approval Process:

The City and its citizens value parks and public lands. Therefore any request to
add a bench will be carefully assessed to ensure that what is being proposed
protects the integrity of the City’s parks and recreational spaces.

The assessment and approval process is as follows:

5.1 An individual, group or business proposing to place a bench in a City park
must submit a detailed application to the City’s Parks and Recreation
Department. The applicant must select from a list of pre-approved bench
designs and installers, and provide the following information:

            a. The suggested location of the bench.
            b. A detailed explanation of how the bench meets the objectives
               and criteria of this policy.

5.2 The Parks and Recreation Department will review the application to
determine if the proposed bench meets the criteria and objectives of this
policy. Parks and Recreation will not consider the proposed bench if it does not
meet the stated objectives and criteria of this policy.

5.3 The Parks and Recreation Department will determine the appropriate
location for the proposed bench in consultation with the applicant. The location
may be different than what the applicant proposed.

5.4 The Parks and Recreation Department will ensure that on-going
maintenance costs do not negatively impact the resources available for
maintenance of other City parks or other spaces.


5.5 If the Parks and Recreation Department approves the proposed bench, the
applicant must agree to pay the full cost of purchasing and installing the
bench.


5.6 Once the bench has been constructed/installed on City property it will be
deemed as donated to the City and the City will own it until such time that it is
removed from City property.

5.7 If the bench becomes damaged or destroyed, the City may dispose of it
based on then current City policies and procedures.


6. Existing or Currently Accepted Benches

This policy does not apply to benches that have been built or accepted by the
City prior to the adoption of this policy.
7. Removal and/or Relocation Process:

The City reserves the right to remove and/or relocate benches if and/or when:

      a. they interfere with the site safety, maintenance or construction activities;
      b. (b) they become unsightly due to vandalism or lack of maintenance and
         repair; or
      c. the law changes to the extent that the bench or its message would be
         treated solely as the speech of a private person rather than the
         governmental speech of the City.

The City will send a registered letter to each identifiable donor notifying the
donor of any action related to the disposition of the donation. In certain
situations, such as safety or emergency situations, the notification may be made
after the action taken. In the event a bench is permanently removed, the City
will seek an alternative location consistent with this policy. If no such location
can be found, the bench may be gifted back to the donor at the City’s
discretion.
