Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Travis Van Ekelenburg
CC:  Date: April 8, 2021
Re: Draper Innovation Site Plan Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 10.2 acres located on the south side of 12300 S, at approximately 381 W 12300 S. The property is currently zoned CBP . The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as an industrial business center. The findings are as follows: Site Plan:
For approval:
1.  The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials, with the exception of approved deviations listed in this report.
3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
For denial:
1. The Site Plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.  The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4. The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
Deviations:
For approval:
1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
2. Additional landscape plant material will be provided in an amount at least ten percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
3. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than the minimum required amount.
For denial:
1. The applicant has not demonstrated to the Planning Commission that they comply with the deviation the standards set in the DCMC Section 9-22-030(B). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 4/5/2021 Cover Memo