From:           noreply@civicplus.com
To:             Laura Oscarson
Subject:        Online Form Submittal: Traverse Ridge Special Service District Administrative Control Board
Date:           Tuesday, May 19, 2020 3:32:16 PM



     Traverse Ridge Special Service District Administrative Control
     Board

     Application for the Traverse Ridge Special Service District Administrative Control
     Board
     This application is for the mid-term vacancy on the Traverse Ridge Special
     Service District Administrative Control Board. A public meeting will be held at the
     regularly scheduled Draper City Council meeting on June 2, 2020, at 7:00 p.m. at
     1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah, to select from candidates to fill the
     vacancy. The Draper City Council and candidates will participate electronically.
     QUALIFICATIONS INCLUDE: Must be a registered voter within the Special
     Service District as per Utah Code Section 17D-1-304(1)(a). PROCEDURE: Allow
     persons who wish to be considered for appointment to be heard. Adopt a
     resolution appointing the member to the board. DEADLINE: The deadline to
     submit an application with a letter of interest/resume will be May 28, 2020, at 5:00
     p.m. This application will be automatically submitted to Laura Oscarson, Draper
     City Recorder, at laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us. For questions call (801) 576-
     6502.

     Personal Information

     First Name                          Jeff


     Last Name                           Jones


     Address1                            2013 E Eagle Crest Dr


     Address2                            Field not completed.


     City                                Draper


     State                               UT - Utah


     Zip                                 84020


     Home Phone Number                   8019232006


     Email Address                       jeffjones76@me.com

     Residency Information

     Length of Residency in              9 years
     Draper City

     Are you a registered                Yes
voter

Education and Hobbies

High School                     Mesa Mountain View, Mesa, Arizona


College                         Brigham Young University - Political Science Major with a focus
                                on Utah Politics

Trade or Business               ISC2 - Certified Information Systems Security Professional
School

Hobbies                         Mountain biking, snow sports, technology applications, music
                                creation and performance, outdoor cooking, cryptography,
                                mythology

Organization Membership Information

Are you currently               No
serving on other
Boards, Commissions,
or Committees?

If yes, which ones?             Field not completed.


Have you served on a            Yes
Board, Commission, or
Committee before?

If yes, which ones?             Field not completed.


Please list organization        Information Systems Security Association (ISSA) member,
memberships and                 served as the local Utah chapter board member overseeing
positions held                  vendor relations.


Please list areas of            Local government, technological innovation, depth psychology,
special interest                sustainable development and planning


Upload Resume or                JJones-resume.pdf
Letter

                       Email not displaying correctly? View it in your browser.
                                             Jeff Jones
              S a l t L a k e C i t y, U t a h – 8 0 1 - 9 2 3 - 2 0 0 6 – j e f f j o n e s 7 6 @ m e . c o m

Professional Experience
2018-Present Global Solutions Architect/Partner Manager
                                                                                  DocAuthority, Ra'anana, Israel
* Solutions Architect – Provide all pre and post-sales support as the first technical resource in the
Americas with an early stage, Israeli-based startup focused on next-gen data management via AI driven
auto-categorization of unstructured data based on business context and process. Responsible for driving
demos, delivering proof of concepts and evaluations, responding to technical sales inquiries, architecting
enterprise product integrations, training partners and customers, as well as exhibiting at industry trade
shows.
* Partner Manager – Research and recruit partners while creating an alliance program for both software
and consulting partners. Create multiple streams of revenue requiring creative licensing models and joint
go to market strategies with both business and technology partners.

2014-2018 Sr. Solutions Architect/Technical Alliances Manager
                                                                                         Ionic Security, Atlanta, GA
* Technical Alliances and Business Development – Evangelized Ionic’s data trust ecosystem
enabling enterprise technologies to seamlessly add data protection and visibility capabilities. Drove
technical alliances and partnerships to empower data protection within leading ISVs, MSSPs, and SIs. Lead
efforts to grow sell-through business by making development integration simpler while strengthening
business development to add additional revenue streams. Established strategic partnerships that drove
mutual revenue and increased customer satisfaction. Delivered technical demos as well as quickly
discovered technical integration and business value opportunities.
* Delivery Program Manager, Field Consultant, and Product Management – Established a
professional services organization, methodology, and program to deliver a paradigm changing data
protection platform, mainly focused on Fortune 200 organizations. Worked closely with both pre and post
sales teams along with product management and development teams to drive customer adoption and product
scalability. Provided product direction for Ionic’s next generation enterprise key manager along with its
deployment offerings, focusing on low friction integration and simplifying intricate cryptographic
requirements.

2010-2014 National Security Architect/Technical Product Manager
                                               Symantec Corporation, Mountain View, CA
* Technical Product Management – Team developed Norton Zone, an emerging enterprise file sync
and share offering. Focused on enabling a SaaS secure file sharing by separating encrypted data from the
encryption keys that secure it as well as DLP and other data protection and user authentication mechanisms.
* Enterprise Security Consultant – Lead encryption specialist and solutions architect for the Security
Business Practice responsible for large enterprise technical sales covering the Americas. Responsibilities
include RFP/RFI responses, designing and proposing security solutions to Symantec’s largest customers
and prospects, evangelizing Symantec’s best of breed security solutions, and promoting best practices for
integration with Symantec’s vast security suite. Primary focus areas include integration with DLP, user
authentication and managed PKI, and Enterprise Key Management.

2003-2010 Enterprise Support/Trainer –Sr. Systems Engineer–Global Solutions Architect
                                                       PGP Corporation, Menlo Park, CA
* Solutions Architect – Engaged in both pre-sales and post-sales with global enterprise customers
leveraging PGP products to address security risks and compliance needs. Duplicated, documented, and
assisted in resolving customer deployment issues, including network configurations, patch updates, email
routing, high-availability and DR planning. Responsible for architecting PGP’s largest deployments in
North America, evangelizing security solutions to C-level decision makers, and working closely with
Products and Engineering teams to improve and create new security solution offerings to address customer
requirements more completely. Helped design and launch initial PGP Key Management Server and
associated protocols that was designed for enterprise 3rd party key/certificate management.
* Pre-sales Technical Engineer – Provided pre-sales support and technical qualification in conjunction
with PGP Enterprise Sales. Served as a senior technical consultant for fortune 500 accounts qualifying and
designing solutions for both new and existing customers. Assisted in project planning as well as deployment
tasks, providing value as one of the few who could wear both hats of providing both pre-sales support and
post-sales implementation. Responsible for both RFP/RFI responses, project scoping, and statement of
work creation.
* Lead Trainer – Developed the PGP technical training and certification program along with materials
for both resellers and internal employees while working the first year as an Enterprise Support Engineer.
Conducted certification trainings for all PGP Sales Engineers as well as channel partners, requiring PGP
product mastery and security expertise from both the top down and bottom up.


Education and Certification
2006      Certified Information Systems Security Professional    (ISC)2, Member ID 103528
2003      CompTIA i-Net+ (security)       CompTIA verification code NF5TD2QLH2EQS7H8
2003      Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer – Windows 2000             MCP ID 3018222
1999      Bachelor of Arts, Political Science         Brigham Young University, Provo, UT

Technical Skills and Professional Associations
* Enterprise security consultant with a focus on systems architecture design and integration, best practices
surrounding PKI, key management, DLP, data classification, access control and identity management,
regulation compliance (HIPAA, PCI, SOX, GDPR, CCPA), strong authentication methods, secure cloud
adoption and risk mitigation practices
* Expertise with enterprise encryption and authentication products, email hygiene and security products,
directory services integration, Windows deployment and management tools, firewalls, load balancers,
network and endpoint security solutions, VMware and other virtualization solutions, cloud computing
design and security remediation, PKI Certificate management systems (Windows 2000/2008 Certificate
Services, OpenSSL), open source security products, data management, information governance,
compliance mapping and networking fundamentals
* Proficient using and troubleshooting all Windows operating systems, Mac OS X, and Linux
* Deployment expertise using enterprise tools VMware and Docker as well as endpoint deployment tools
* Strong leadership and communication skills scoping, delivering, and navigating complex projects cross-
functionally between technical and business teams -- often selected as the customer facing voice of the
company to present solutions and positions to all levels of technical and business management
* Product management experience and many years working between cross-functional QA, Development,
Support and Sales teams delivering industry leading security products
* Strong background in training content creation and delivery
* Information Systems Security Association (ISSA) member, served as the local Utah chapter board
member overseeing vendor relations in 2009
* Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) member – working with fellow industry experts to advance security best
practices together with the evolution of cloud-based services
* Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM) member, joined in 2018 expanding security
expertise with deeper data governance and information management industry knowledge

References Available Upon Request
* Request LinkedIn connection for references: http://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffreyjones
