Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: October 14, 2021
Re: Crosspoint CSD Zoning Text and Map Amendments Comments: This application is a request for approval of a zoning text and zoning map amendment for approximately 17.26 acres located at approximately 166 E. Highland Drive.  The property is currently zoned CR.  The applicant is requesting to rezone the property to create a new commercial district called the Crosspoint Commercial Special District (CSD-CP).  The proposed CSD-CP zone will be located in Chapter 9-18 (Commercial Special Districts) in the DCMC.
The subject property is vacant and has never been developed.  The site has been zoned as CR since at least 2001.  The Planning Commission previously considering this application at their December 17, 2020 meeting.  At that meeting, the request was unanimously continued to a date uncertain so the applicant could make changes to the proposed CSD text. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  Map Amendments:
a.  The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
c.  The amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
d.  The proposed amendment may not adversely affect adjacent property; and
e.  Adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection are in place.
2.  Text Amendments:
a.  The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
c.  The amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
d.  The amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
e.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
f.  The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1.  Map Amendments:
a.  The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
c.  The amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
d.  The proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property; and
e.  Adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection may not be in place.
2.  Text Amendments:
a.  The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
c.  The amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
d.  The amendment may create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
e.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined may be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
f.  The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 10/4/2021 Backup Material