                  REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY AGENDA
                  May 18, 2021 at 7:00 PM
                  1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020
                  Council Chambers

7:00 p.m. BUSINESS MEETING
1.    Call to Order
      a.   This meeting will be an electronic meeting according
           to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040.
           WRITTEN DETERMINATION 2021-30 Pursuant to
           Utah Code Ann. 52-4-207(4)

           I, Mayor Troy Walker, do hereby determine conducting an
           electronic meeting of the Draper City Redevelopment Agency
           with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the
           health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor
           location and hereby authorize the Draper Redevelopment
           Agency to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor
           location.
           The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
                Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City
                Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global
                pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
                While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper
                show an encouraging downward trend and vaccines are
                becoming available to a larger segment of the Draper
                population, vigilance is required so that there isn’t a
                rebound in cases and hospitalizations.
                It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of
                attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding
                social distancing in order to comply with state and local
                health departments health orders.
                COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to
                the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
                The City has the technological capability to provide
                means by which the public may hear, or view and hear,
                the open portions of the meeting and to participate in
                public hearings.
           To participate:
              Listen through the Draper City Website –
              https://www.draperutah.gov/95/Agendas-Minutes
      b.   Motion: Approval and Consent to Assignment of Rights
           and Obligations under BG Vista Station, LC
           Development Agreements
2.       Adjourn to a City Council Meeting
SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were
posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website
www.draperutah.gov, the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn,
and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.

Date Posted: May 14, 2021
                                         Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder
                                         Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing
special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson,
City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24
hours prior to the meeting.
