Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: October 14, 2021
Re: Kum & Go Store #2500 Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a text amendment for approximately 2.38 acres located on the east side of 200 West, at approximately 13639 S. and 13691 S. 200 West .  The property is currently zoned CSD-136C .  The applicant is requesting that a text amendment be approved to change several sections of the existing commercial special district.  The subject properties are currently undeveloped and front onto 200 West and Bangerter Highway. The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:
a.   The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.   The amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
c.   The amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
d.   The amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
e.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
f.   The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices
For a negative recommendation:
a.   The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.   The amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
c.   The amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
d.   The amendment may create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
e.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined may be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
f.   The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 10/4/2021 Backup Material