                           Development Review Committee
                                1020 East Pioneer Road
                                  Draper, UT 84020
                                        July 28, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: August 12, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:     Lot 16 Alan Point – Plat Amendment Request
        Application No.: SUBD-0070-2021
        Applicant:        Jef Johnson
        Project Location: 815 W Alan Point Dr.
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min area) Zone
        Acreage:          1.23 Acres (Approximately 53,579 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Plat Amendment in the RA2 zone to
                          vacate a wetlands no build area in the rear yard.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Plat Amendment for approximately 1.23
acres located on the west side of Alan Point Dr., at approximately 815 W Alan Point Dr.
(Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that a Plat
Amendment be approved to vacate a wetlands no build area in the rear yard.

The house on the property was built in the year 2002 and it part of the Alan Point
Subdivision. The Alan Point Subdivision is a 22 lot subdivision recorded in 1998 with lot
sizes around one half acre to over an acre in size. The recorded plat includes on lots 11-19
a large wetland area crossing all of the rear yards and is recorded as a “wetlands and no
building zone”.



ANALYSIS




Lot 16 Alan Point                                                   App. # SUBD-0055-2021
Plat Amendment Request                        1
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This
category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
two dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The RA2 zoning designation surrounds the subject
property.

Subdivision Plat. The applicant is requesting with this application to vacate the no-build



Lot 16 Alan Point                                                      App. # SUBD-0055-2021
Plat Amendment Request                           2
wetland zone recorded on the original Alan Point Subdivision plat via Plat Amendment. The
property is 1.23 acres in size and the non-buildable area of the subject property is close to
half of the property and almost all of the rear yard. The applicant has received approval
from the Army Corp of Engineers clarifying that the aquatic resources of the land have
dried up and are no longer an issue for the property. The Army Corp of Engineers letter is
includes as (Exhibit F).

No modifications to property lines, lot size, or public utility easements are proposed with
the plat.

Criteria for Approval. The grounds for review and potential approval of a subdivision plat
amendment request is found in Section 17-9-040 of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        “The Planning Commission may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing
        an amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the Land Use Authority finds
        that there is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no Public Street, right-of-
        way, or easement has been vacated or amended.”



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Plat Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Plat Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Plat Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Plat
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



REVIEWS




Lot 16 Alan Point                                                    App. # SUBD-0055-2021
Plat Amendment Request                         3
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Plat Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Plat Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Plat Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Plat
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning
Commission review the request, receive public comment, and approve the application
based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff
report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
            Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the Plat Amendment
            Process.
    2.      Per DCMC Section 17-9-070: If the plat amendment is not recorded within one (1)
            year from the date of approval or construction of the required landscaping and
            infrastructure has not commenced, such approval shall be null and void. This
            time period may be extended by the Planning Commission for up to one
            additional six (6) month period for good cause shown. The subdivider must
            petition in writing for an extension prior to the expiration of the original one (1)
            year.




Lot 16 Alan Point                                                    App. # SUBD-0055-2021
Plat Amendment Request                          4
    3.      That the outstanding redlines for all reviewing agencies and departments for the
            final amended plat are resolved and approved before mylar recordation.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1.      There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no Public Street, right-
            of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Plat Amendment, as requested
by Jef Johnson, for application SUBD-0070-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 28, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Plat Amendment, as
requested by Jef Johnson, for application SUBD-0070-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 28, 2021, and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…




Lot 16 Alan Point                                                  App. # SUBD-0055-2021
Plat Amendment Request                         5
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

               1. That the applicant resolve any redline or reviewing agency requirements
                  prior to recordation of the plat amendment mylar.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

               1. Rewrite the wording for the narrative. Refer the wetlands data per US
                  Army Corp Engineers.
               2. Replace WaterPro signature box as Draper City Water.
               3. Place a north arrow for the Vicinity map.

Building Division Review.

               1. No Comments.

Fire Division Review.

               1. No Comments.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
    EXHIBIT E
PLAT AMENDMENT
                                                        Reeve & Associates, Inc. - Solutions You Can Build On



Reeve & Associates, Inc. - Solutions You Can Build On




                                                                                                                Reeve
                                                                                                                & Associates, Inc.




                                                        Reeve & Associates, Inc. - Solutions You Can Build On
             EXHIBIT F
ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS DOCUMENTS
                                DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
                       U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS, SACRAMENTO DISTRICT
                                          1325 J STREET
                                    SACRAMENTO CA 95814-2922


                                     December 4, 2020

Regulatory Division (SPK-2020-00802)


Mr. Jef Johnson
815 Alan Point Drive
Draper, Utah 84020
jefnvick@hotmail.com

Dear Mr. Johnson:

   We are responding to your October 8, 2020 request for verification of an Aquatic
Resource delineation for the Johnson site. The approximately 1.23-acre project site is
located at 815 Alan Point Drive, Latitude 40.535858°, Longitude -111.913124°, Draper,
Salt Lake County Utah (enclosure 1).

    Based on available information, we concur with your aquatic resources delineation
for the site, which consists of approximately 0.11 acres of palustrine emergent wetlands,
as depicted on the enclosed July 9, 2020, Aquatic Resources Inventory Map drawing
prepared by Bio-West (enclosure 2). This letter verifies that the location and boundaries
of wetlands were delineated consistent with the wetland definition at 33 CFR
§328.3(c)(16), the 1987 Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual (Wetlands
Research Program Technical Report Y-87-1) and the applicable regional supplements;
the location and boundaries of tidal waters conform with the high tide line defined at 33
CFR §328.3(c)(4); and the location and boundaries of non-tidal waters conform with the
ordinary high water mark definition at 33 CFR §328.3(c)(7), Regulatory Guidance Letter
05-05, and any applicable regional guide.

    This verification letter does not constitute a jurisdictional determination (JD). A JD is
not required to process an application for a Department of the Army permit. If you do not
require a JD for the site, your permit application may be processed sooner. You may
request a JD for this site at any time prior to starting work in aquatic resources,
including after a permit decision is made. To request a JD for this site, complete the
attached Request for Aquatic Resources Delineation or Jurisdictional Determination
Form (enclosure 3) and return it to this office at the address listed below.

    The delineation included herein has been conducted to identify the location and
extent of the aquatic resource boundaries and/or the jurisdictional status of aquatic
resources for purposes of the Clean Water Act for the particular site identified in this
request. This delineation may not be valid for the Wetland Conservation Provisions of
the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended. If you or your tenant are USDA program
participants, or anticipate participation in USDA programs, you should discuss the
applicability of a certified wetland determination with the local USDA service center,
prior to starting work.
                                           -2-




   Please refer to identification number SPK-2020-00802 in any correspondence
concerning this project. If you have any questions, please contact me at 533 West 2600
South, Suite 150, Bountiful, Utah 84010, by email at
Nicole.D.Fresard@usace.army.mil, or telephone at (801) 295-8380 ext. 8321. For
program information or to complete our Customer Survey, visit our website at
www.spk.usace.army.mil/Missions/Regulatory.aspx.

                                            Sincerely,




                                            Nicole Fresard
                                            Senior Project Manager
                                            Nevada-Utah Section
                                            Regulatory Division

Enclosures

cc: Travis Taylor (ttaylor@bio-west.com)
                             Application for Plat Amendment
                                 Alan Point Subdivision - Lot 16
                                     815 W Alan Point Drive
                                            Draper UT




Section IV.
Draper City Municipal Code 9-24 - Wetlands Assessment

Objective:
In accordance with the Draper City Plat Amendment process; in particular the Plat Amendment
Application Checklist, under the heading of Natural Resources Inventory (NRI) we are referred to
the Draper City Municipal Code 9-24. In code 9-24 NRI, Section 9-24-030 NRI Requirements,
paragraph (d) Wetlands, note (2) it states "If wetlands are present, a wetlands assessment shall
be submitted to the City prior to consideration of a preliminary plan as required by the U S
Army Corp of Engineers.”

Submission of a Wetlands Assessment to Draper City:
A submission of the Wetlands Assessment was emailed to Draper City December 14, 2020.
Information contained in the submission is included in other sections of this report. A copy of
the email is included in this section.
                             Application for Plat Amendment
                                 Alan Point Subdivision - Lot 16
                                     815 W Alan Point Drive
                                            Draper UT




Section V.
Bio West - Wetlands Assessment

Explanation for the use of Bio West:
The local U S Army Corp of Engineers office is closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However,
representatives are available remotely by phone and/or email. Having contacted Nicole Fresard,
the Senior Project Manager for the Utah-Nevada Section of the U.S. Army Corp Of Engineers
Regulatory Division, Ms. Fresard advised that due to Covid-19 restrictions the USACOE is
currently restricted from making a site visit to any property for an evaluation. At the direction
of Ms. Fresard, we were advised to hire a qualified consultant to prepare an assessment for her
review.

Bio West, who meets the USACOE criteria, and has significant experience in working with and
reporting to the USAACOE, was enlisted to perform the wetlands assessment. A Bio West
introduction is included in this section.

Bio-West, visited the Alan Point Subdivision Lot 16 at 815 W Alan Point Drive, and surveyed,
collected samples, photographed and in general conducted the on-site evaluation to provide
information to the U S Army Corp Of Engineers for their review. At the conclusion of Bio West's
efforts, they prepared an Aquatic Resources Delineation Report. This report was submitted to
the U S Army Corp Of Engineers through the Aquatic Resources Delineation Verification process
as noted in Section III. The U S Army Corp Of Engineers reviewed the report and they concur
with the Bio West aquatic resource delineation for the site. The Bio West aquatics resources
report is attached at the end of this section.
Bio West
Wetland Services
1063 West 1400 North
Logan Ut 84321



Travis Taylor
Ecologist
435-752-4202
www.bio-west.com

Our staff routinely investigate and delineate wetlands, identify and quantify wetland functions and values,
and determine the context of each wetland to understand its unique functions such as history, size,
location, vegetation, wildlife composition, and adjacent land uses. While we always design projects to
eliminate or minimize wetland impacts, we can also assist clients with developing mitigation plans and
monitoring mitigation to provide appropriate compensation for unavoidable wetland impacts. Through
experience preparing numerous wetland investigations, delineations, mitigation plans, we frequently
negotiate and coordinate with the appropriate agencies (e.g., U.S. Army Corps of Engineers) to minimize
the effort required to develop appropriate mitigation to compensate for unavoidable wetland impacts from
project construction. Our specific services offered in relation to wetlands are listed below.

Wetland Investigations:

        •    Hydrological Source Identification

        •    Rare/Endangered Plant Surveys

        •    Soil Mapping and Characterization

        •    Water Quality Analysis

        •    Wetland Functions and Values Identification and Assessment

        •    Wetland Identification

        •    Wetland Plant Community Characterization

Wetland Mitigation Design/Monitoring:

        •    Erosion and Sediment Control Plans

        •    Functional Assessment

        •    Hydrologic Investigations

        •    Hydrologic Modeling and Sampling

        •    Photo Determinations
       •   Reclamation/Vegetation Plans

       •   Report and Map Preparation

       •   Site Selection

       •   Stream Relocation

       •   Vegetation Analysis

Wetland Regulatory Compliance:

       •   Agency Coordination

       •   Jurisdictional Wetland Boundary Delineation

       •   Permit Preparation and Modification

       •   National Environmental Policy Act Documentation

       •   Resource Management
                          JEF JOHNSON PROPERTY
                        AQUATIC RESOURCES REPORT
                        Draper, Salt Lake County, Utah




Survey Area (June 19, 2020)




Prepared for:

Mr. Jef Johnson
815 Alan Point Drive
Draper, Utah 84020


Prepared by:

BIO-WEST, Inc.
1063 West 1400 North
Logan, Utah 84321


July 2020
CONTENTS
1.0       INTRODUCTION ...............................................................................................................1

2.0       METHODS ..........................................................................................................................1

3.0       GENERAL SURVEY AREA CONDITIONS.....................................................................5

4.0       WETLAND INVESTIGATION FINDINGS ......................................................................6
          4.1 Vegetation ......................................................................................................................7
          4.2 Soils................................................................................................................................8
          4.3 Hydrology ......................................................................................................................8

5.0       DELINEATION SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....................................................10

6.0       REFERENCES CITED ......................................................................................................11

APPENDIX A:                     WETLAND DELINEATION MAP AND AQUATIC RESOURCES
                                SPREADSHEET

APPENDIX B:                     WETLAND DELINEATION DATA SHEETS

APPENDIX C:                     SOIL SURVEY MAP

APPENDIX D:                     SAMPLE POINT PHOTOS

APPENDIX E:                     NATIONAL WETLAND INVENTORY MAP

Figures
Figure 1. Survey area location map. ............................................................................................ 2

Figure 2. US Geological Survey topographic map. ..................................................................... 3

Tables
Table 1.        Plant species identified in the survey area. ................................................................... 7




BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                                                                     Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                                               i                                      Aquatic Resources Report
DEFINITIONS
Depth-to-soil saturation: The depth at which the pores between soil particles are filled with
water.

Drainage patterns: A network of intermittent or perennial channels formed by local geological
and soil characteristics.

Hydric soils: Soils that are flooded, ponded, or saturated long enough during the growing season
to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part of the soil profile. These conditions can
develop from continuous saturation during as little as 5 percent of the growing season.

Ordinary high-water mark: On the shoreline of a body of water, the line or marking
established by the fluctuations of water and indicated by physical characteristics such as a clear
and natural line impressed on the bank, shelving, changes in the character of soil, destruction of
terrestrial vegetation, the presence of litter and debris, and/or other indicators appropriate for the
surrounding area.

Waters of the United States: “All waters that are currently used, or were used in the past, or
may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign commerce, including all waters which are
subject to the ebb and flow of the tide; All interstate waters including interstate wetlands; All
other waters such as intrastate lakes, rivers, streams (including intermittent streams), mudflats,
sandflats, wetlands, sloughs, prairie potholes, wet meadows, playa lakes, or natural ponds, the
use, degradation, or destruction of which could affect interstate or foreign commerce…Wetlands
adjacent to waters (other than waters that are themselves wetlands) identified above.” (Definition
taken from 33 CFR, Part 328.3). “Adjacent” is defined as bordering, contiguous, or neighboring.

Wetlands: “Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions.” (Definition taken from 33 CFR,
Part 328.3).

Limits of jurisdiction in nontidal waters:

1.     In the absence of adjacent wetlands, the jurisdiction extends to the ordinary high-water
       mark, or

2.     when adjacent wetlands are present, the jurisdiction extends beyond the ordinary high-
       water mark to the limit of the adjacent wetlands.

3.     When the water of the United States consists only of wetlands, the jurisdiction extends to
       the limit of the wetland (taken from 33 CFR, Part 328.3).




BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                                    Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                          ii                         Aquatic Resources Report
1.0              INTRODUCTION
Mr. Jef Johnson is planning to develop a portion of his property located in Draper City, Utah,
and has contracted BIO-WEST, Inc., (BIO-WEST) to perform an aquatic resources inventory
prior to development. The proposed development is a garage and workshop space and a pool
area. Draper City has required an investigation for the presence of potential wetlands and other
non-wetland waters (aquatic resources) that may be located on the property prior to issuing a
building permit. This aquatic resources inventory was conducted to locate and delineate wetlands
and surface waters and to document existing conditions (vegetation, soils, hydrology) within the
property parcel. The 1.23-acre property parcel (survey area) is located in Draper, Utah (Salt Lake
County). The survey area lies entirely within section 26 of township 3 South, Range 1 West, is
located approximately 1 mile west of I-15, and roughly 0.2 miles east of the Jordan River
corridor. The survey area is located at 815 Alan Point Drive, Draper, Utah 84020 (Figure 1) and
the center of the survey area is located approximately at GPS coordinates 40.5355° N latitude,
and -111.9137° W longitude (Figure 2).

2.0              METHODS
BIO-WEST personnel performed an aquatic resources inventory of the survey area on June 19,
2020, to delineate potential wetlands and surface-water boundaries. Wetland boundaries were
identified in accordance with the US Army Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual
(Environmental Laboratory 1987). In addition, the Regional Supplement to the Corps of
Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual: Arid West Region (Research and Development 2008)
was used for regional specificity. Determining wetland boundary location requires that
vegetation, soils, and hydrology are investigated within any areas thought to be wetlands, and all
three of these indicators must meet predefined qualifications to be classified as a water of the
United States under the Clean Water Act (Environmental Laboratory 1987). When potential
wetland areas were identified, sampling points were established where all three indicators were
investigated and determined as either wetland or non-wetland. Once the presence of a wetland
was confirmed, the boundary was recorded using a hand-held GPS unit and subsequently
mapped using a GIS mapping program. In areas where one or more wetland indicators were
absent or misleading, delineation and mapping were completed using mainly soil characteristics,
depression landscape position, remnant hydrophytic vegetation, or persistent hydrological
indicators, as specified by the manual. If present, non-wetland surface waters were also
delineated and mapped.

Sample points were established to examine and record existing conditions and to determine the
presence or absence of potential wetlands within the survey area. Existing soil, vegetation, and
hydrologic conditions were analyzed and recorded at each sample point and classified as either a
wetland indicator or a non-wetland indicator. When a potential wetland was identified (i.e., all
three indicators were determined as wetland indicators), paired sample points were typically
established, with one sample point within the wetland and the other in a nearby non-wetland
area.




BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                                Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                       1                         Aquatic Resources Report
Figure 1.        Survey area location map.


BIO-WEST, Inc.                                       Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                    2   Aquatic Resources Report
Figure 2.        US Geological Survey topographic map.


BIO-WEST, Inc.                                               Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                   3            Aquatic Resources Report
Sample point locations that met all three wetland indicator requirements (hydrophytic vegetation,
hydric soil, and wetland hydrology) were classified as wetland. Sample point locations not
meeting all three indicators were classified as upland. These paired sample points were then used
to determine the wetland boundary. Wetlands and their associated boundaries were delineated
and mapped based on these sample point data results (Appendix A).

Vegetation community data were used to determine whether the plants at each sample point met
the requirements of a Hydrophytic Vegetation Indicator (typical of a wetland plant community).
Relative abundance of each vegetation species was recorded by BIO-WEST personnel at each
sample point using Arid West Region Wetland Determination Data Forms (Appendix B)
following procedures outlined in the US Army Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual
(Environmental Laboratory 1987). Four vegetative strata (Tree Stratum, Sapling/Shrub Stratum,
Herb Stratum, and Woody Vine Stratum) were independently analyzed within predetermined
radii at each sample point using the sample point soil pit (discussed in the soils section below) as
the center of the circle. When present, percent cover of each tree and woody vine species was
recorded within a 30-foot radius, percent cover of each sapling and shrub species was recorded
within a 15-foot radius, and percent cover of each herb species was recorded within a 5-foot
radius. According to the US Army Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual
(Environmental Laboratory 1987), any strata with less than 5 percent total plant cover is not used
to determine wetland status and according to the 50/20 rule in said manual, any species
comprising 20 percent or more of the total vegetation cover within each strata were considered
dominant. The wetland-indicator status was determined for all plant species according to the US
Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) North American Digital Flora: National Wetland Plant List
(Lichvar et al. 2016), but only dominant plants within each stratum were used to deduce whether
the plant community met the requirements of a hydrophytic community. The wetland-indicator
status estimates the probability of a particular plant species occurring in wetland environments.
More than 50 percent of the dominant plant species must have a vegetation-indicator status of
facultative (34–66 percent probability of occurring in wetlands), facultative wetland (67–99
percent probability of occurring in wetlands), or obligate wetland (more than 99 percent
probability of occurring in wetlands) for a sample point to meet the requirements of the
hydrophytic plant community dominance test.

Soil profiles were used to determine if the soil at each sample point met the requirements as a
Hydric Soil Indicator (typically found in wetland soils). Soil profiles were produced by digging
soil pits at each sample point to a depth of at least 18 inches (if possible). At least one positive
Hydric Soil Indicator must be present at a sample point to classify a soil as a wetland soil. For
example, soils in prolonged anaerobic conditions undergo chemical reduction, thereby producing
lighter soil colors and reduced iron concentrations called redox features. During the field survey,
the colors of the soil profile matrix and redox features were identified using Munsell soil color
charts (Kollmorgen Instruments 1990). Soil horizon thickness, texture, moisture content, and
depth-to-soil saturation and/or standing water was noted. The presence or absence of particulate
organic matter, organic matter staining, concretions, depletions, mottling, and gleying was also
noted. These characteristics were used to determine whether the soils are hydric or non-hydric
following procedures outlined in the US Army Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual
(Environmental Laboratory 1987) and descriptions found in the Regional Supplement to the
Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual: Arid West Region (Research and Development
2008).

BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                                  Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                        4                          Aquatic Resources Report
Standard wetland delineation procedures require the comparison of soil profiles observed in the
field with the soil descriptions referenced in the Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS)
Soil Survey (USDA NRCS 2020a). The Utah County, Utah, soil survey was accessed using the
NRCS Web Soil Survey website (USDA NRCS 2020b) and referenced during the survey area
visit (Appendix C).

Hydrology was also investigated and evidence of hydrology was recorded at each sample point,
and the data were used to determine if the sample point met the requirements as a Wetland
Hydrology Indicator (typical of hydrology found in wetland environments). The determination of
wetland hydrology was based on the presence of at least one positive primary indicator of
prolonged saturation, or two positive secondary indicators of prolonged saturation. Primary
indicators include surface water, high water table, saturation, watermarks (nonriverine), debris
deposits (nonriverine), sediment deposits (nonriverine), surface-soil cracks, inundation visible on
aerial imagery, water-stained leaves, salt crust, biotic crust, aquatic invertebrates, hydrogen
sulfide odor, oxidized rhizospheres along living roots, and the presence of reduced iron or recent
iron reduction in plowed soils. Secondary indicators include watermarks (riverine), sediment
deposits (riverine), drift deposits (riverine), drainage patterns, dry-season water table, thin muck
surface, crayfish burrows, saturation visible on aerial imagery, shallow aquitard, and hydrophytic
results from the facultative-neutral test. Environmental changes and the topographic position of
the sample points relative to the observed water table were also noted.

Seven sample points were established to characterize existing hydrologic, soil, and vegetative
conditions within the survey area and to determine wetland boundaries. Wetland boundaries
were defined between the wetland and upland sample points and mapped according to wetland
defining features such as changes in vegetation or topography. Each sample point was photo-
documented at the time of the investigation (Appendix D). The approximate locations of
delineated wetland boundaries and sample points were surveyed using a submeter-accurate GPS.
The survey data were downloaded into a GIS program to produce mapping that shows the
delineated wetland boundaries, estimated wetland and non-wetland acreage, and sample point
locations (Appendix A).

3.0              GENERAL SURVEY AREA CONDITIONS
The survey area is located on the broad, historic floodplain of the Jordan River (approximately
1,000 feet from the existing channel) and is situated amidst a residential subdivision. The
property owner’s home is situated within the survey area. Two adjacent residences border the
property to the northwest and southeast, and a shared gravel access road runs along the
northwestern survey area boundary. The southern survey area boundary is bordered by a ditch
that drains a human-made pond situated on a farm property to south.

At the time of the BIO-WEST aquatic resources inventory on June 19, 2020, a manicured grass
lawn surrounded the home, and a small shed and garden area were located behind the house. The
majority of the undeveloped area behind property owner’s home was disturbed by past land
grading, ditch dredging, and the installation of the subdivision stormwater infrastructure. A
concrete culvert was located near the northwestern boundary of the property, which drained the
subdivision’s stormwater into a low swale located centrally within the survey area. This low

BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                                 Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                        5                         Aquatic Resources Report
swale continued to the southeastern section of the property where surface water discharged by
the storm drain could be captured by the southern ditch located outside the survey area. Typical
summer conditions were encountered during the aquatic resources inventory. Vegetation was
growing and readily identifiable. Plant communities observed within the survey area included
palustrine emergent wetlands, disturbed weedy uplands, Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis)
dominated sod areas, and some low areas dominated by a mix of halophytic (salt tolerant) plants
and upland weedy species typical of the Jordan River floodplain.

4.0              WETLAND INVESTIGATION FINDINGS
Three separated palustrine emergent wetlands were identified within the survey area, comprising
0.11 acres (9%) of the total 1.23 acre surveyed. The remaining 1.12 acres were classified as
upland.

Wetland A (0.050 acres within the survey area) was in a low swale located centrally within the
survey area. The low swale collects stormwater discharged from a culvert buried underneath the
gravel approach road along the northwestern survey area boundary. The upper portion of
Wetland A contained flowing water at the time of the survey area investigation, and some
ponded water had collected in a low area within the swale. Sample point 01 was collected within
the upper portion of the swale, and the soil profile was saturated and contained redox
concentrations. The southern portion of the swale where sample point 03 was conducted, did not
contain surface water, but had evidence of past flows. Apparently, flushing of a nearby fire
hydrant has caused excess hydrant water to flow from this culvert into the property. It appears
that surface water flows could drain through the southeastern property boundary and into the
drainage ditch outside the survey area during strong precipitation events. Three-square
(Schoenoplectus pungens), foxtail barley (Hordeum jubatum), and spreading alkali grass
(Puccinellia distans) dominated the plant community within Wetland A.

Wetland B (approximately 0.014 acres within the survey area) was in a low depression adjacent
to the southern boundary ditch. The wetland appeared to be a remnant ditch lateral that is
unmanaged and has become overgrown by dense common reed (Phragmites australis). It
appears that, during high flows, water backs up from the southern boundary ditch and floods the
low-lying areas adjacent to the ditch, driving wetland conditions. The soil was saturated and
emitted the odor of hydrogen sulfide, and the water table was 4 inches below the soil surface.
Wetland B was dominated by common reed, with some Baltic rush (Juncus arcticus) growing
within the perimeter of the wetland.

Wetland C (approximately 0.047 acres within the survey area) was in a low depression just
northwest of Wetland B and southwest of Wetland A. The depression appeared to collect excess
stormwater drainage and may have a groundwater connection to the southern boundary ditch.
Hydrogen sulfide odor was present and the soil was saturated with redox concentrations in the
matrix and pore linings, indicating prolonged saturation. The water table was observed at 18
inches below the soil surface. Wetland B was dominated by a mix of spreading alkali grass
foxtail barely, with lesser amounts of alkali American-aster (Symphyotrichum ciliatum), reed
canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea), and three-square.


BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                               Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                      6                         Aquatic Resources Report
4.1                      Vegetation
A mixture of upland and wetland vegetation communities inhabited the survey area.

The most abundant vegetation community was upland ruderal grassland dominated by wall
barley (Hordeum murinum) and foxtail barley (Hordeum jubatum), mixed with weedy species
such as yellow sweetclover (Melilotus officinalis), lamb’s quarter (Chenopodium album), prickly
lettuce (Lactuca serriola), and whitetop (Cardaria draba). Some of the graded areas contained
spreading alkali grass and salt grass mixed into the upland plant community. These species are
FAC-rated and FACW-rated wetland indicator plants that are also salt-tolerant species typical of
saline-affected soils situated on the Jordan River Floodplain. These species appeared to be
spreading into upland areas from the lower wetland areas, where their presence is a result of
halophytic soil conditions rather than hydrophytic soil conditions. The palustrine emergent
wetland communities observed within the survey area consisted of three-square, common reed,
fox-tail barley, spreading alkali grass, alkali American-aster, reed canary grass, Baltic rush, and
coastal saltgrass (Distichlis spicata). Below is a list of plant species observed in the survey area
(Table 1).

Table 1.                 Plant species identified in the survey area.
    COMMON NAME                                     SCIENTIFIC NAME                          INDICATOR STATUS a
    Alkali American-aster                         Symphyotrichum ciliatum                              FACW
    Baltic rush                                         Juncus balticus                                FACW
    clasping pepperwort                             Lepidium perfoliatum                               FACU
    coastal salt grass                                 Distichlis spicata                               FAC
    common reed                                      Phragmites australis                              FACW
    curly dock                                          Rumex crispus                                   FAC
    field bindweed                                  Convolvulus arvensis                                UPL
    fox-tail barley                                   Hordeum jubatum                                   FAC
    greenmolly                                         Bassia americana                                 FAC
    Kentucky bluegrass                                   Poa pratensis                                  FAC
    lamb’s quarter                                  Chenopodium album                                  FACU
    Nuttall’s alkali grass                          Puccinellia nuttalliana                            FACW
    prickly lettuce                                     Lactuca serriola                               FACU
    reed canary grass                               Phalaris arundinacea                               FACW
    showy milkweed                                    Asclepias speciosa                                FAC
    Sierran fumewort                                  Corydalis caseana                                FACW
    spreading alkali grass                            Puccinellia distans                              FACW
    three-square                                  Schoenoplectus pungens                               FACW
    wall barley                                       Hordeum murinum                                  FACU
    whitetop                                            Cardaria draba                                  UPL
    yard knotweed                                   Polygonum aviculare                                 FAC
    yellow sweet-clover                               Melilotus officinalis                            FACU
a
 FAC=facultative species, FACU=facultative upland species, FACW=facultative wetland species, OBL=obligate wetland species,
UPL=upland species.




BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                                                      Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                                     7                                 Aquatic Resources Report
4.2              Soils
Soils were examined in the field during the BIO-WEST aquatic resources survey. Wetland soils
encountered were primarily loam and clay, with some silt. The NRCS Web Soil Survey (USDA
NRCS 2020c) of the survey area was mapped and reviewed prior to use as a reference while on
site (Appendix C). Chipman silty clay loam, saline, sodic, 0 to 1 percent slopes (Ck), was the
only soil type mapped within the survey area, and it is classified as a hydric soil.

The NRCS (USDA NRCS 2020a) provides the following Chipman soil series description:

       Chipman (Ck) - The Chipman series (including Ck) consists of very deep, poorly
       drained soils formed in lacustrine sediments from shale and limestone. Chipman
       soils are found in low lake terraces and floodplains with slopes ranging from 0 to 2
       percent. Chipman soils are classified as fine-silty, mixed, superactive, mesic Typic
       Calciaquolls. The seasonal high-water table is between 12 to 30 inches, unless
       drained. Drainage is poor and runoff is slow. Permeability is slow to moderately
       slow. Chipman soils are used to grow irrigated crops such as corn, small grain,
       sugar beets, vegetables, pasture, and alfalfa. Chipman soils support native
       vegetation including bunch grasses and big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata).

Wetland soils at sample point locations met the requirements as Hydric Soil Indicators, which
indicate prolonged periods of flooding or soil saturation. Redox concentrations within the soil
matrix, or light-colored soils with high value and low chroma characterized a Depleted Matrix
(hydric soil indicator F3) at all four wetland sample points. Additionally, hydrogen sulfide odor
(hydric soil indicator A4) was present when diggings soil pits at sample points 1, 5, and 6.

Wetland soil texture and texture composition varied among wetland sample points. Wetland soil
textures were loam over clay at sample points 01 and 04; whereas sample point 5 was silt and
sample point 6 was a combination of all three. Soils at some of the wetland sample points
appeared disturbed from past land grading and other disturbances within the survey area.

Upland soils (soils outside of the wetlands) lacked the required indicators of wetland soils and
varied in color and texture. Generally, upland soils contained mixed layers and were much drier
than wetland soils. Upland soils were also loam and clay, with some sand and gravel mixed in at
sample point 4.

4.3              Hydrology
City stormwater discharge, surface water flooding from the southern boundary drainage ditch,
and a locally high water table appeared to be the primary sources of hydrology within the survey
area. A concrete culvert drained residential stormwater into a low swale (Wetland A) located
centrally within the survey area. Surface water was present in this low swale during the aquatic
resources inventory, and the presence of hydrophytic vegetation, saturated soil, and hydrogen
sulfide indicated that the swale experiences prolonged saturation during the growing season. It’s
possible that stormwater flowing through the wetland could drain through the low swale to the
southeast corner of the property and into the drainage ditch situated south of, but outside the

BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                                 Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                       8                          Aquatic Resources Report
survey area boundary. The ditch drains the human-made pond on the farm property south of the
survey area. The southern boundary ditch was overgrown with dense wetland vegetation, and
when it is not maintained it can back up surface water into the adjacent low areas that comprise
Wetland B. Furthermore, a water table was observed at 4 inches from the soil surface, and at 18
inches from the soil surface at Wetland B, and Wetland C, respectively. Wetland C, another low
depression within the survey area, also appeared to collect stormwater, and appeared to have a
groundwater connection to the southern boundary ditch.

Primary and secondary indicators of wetland hydrology provided evidence for wetlands within
the survey area. Primary wetland hydrology indicators observed at the wetland sample points
included one or more of the following: surface water, saturation, drift deposits, high water table,
and hydrogen sulfide odor. Secondary wetland hydrology indicators included drainage patterns
and the FAC-neutral test.

The US Fish and Wildlife Service’s (USFWS) National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) does not
illustrate wetlands within the survey area (Appendix E) (USFWS 2020). It is possible the NWI
survey did not detect these small palustrine emergent wetlands.

Neither the Natural Resources Conservation Service (USDA NRCS b) soil Series Extent
Explorer, nor the US Geological Survey (USGS) topographic map (Figure 2) show any blue-line
water features within the survey area. However, the USGS topographic map does show one blue-
line stream feature, the Galena Canal, just northeast of the survey area, and the USDA Web Soil
Survey maps (NRCS 2020 c) shows a blue-line feature through the northeast section of the
survey area.

5.0 DELINEATION SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Three palustrine emergent wetlands comprised approximately 0.11 acres of the 1.23-acre survey
area (approximately 9.0%) during the BIO-WEST aquatic resources survey. All three wetlands
exhibited the characteristics required to meet hydrophytic vegetation, hydric soil, and hydrology
indicators of wetlands. Upland habitat covered the remaining 1.12 acres of the survey area
(Appendix A). The upland areas lacked all three wetland indicators: hydrophytic vegetation,
wetland hydrology, and hydric soil. It appeared that the existing palustrine emergent wetlands
were supported by city stormwater discharge, irrigation water from the ditch, and a locally high
water table. The survey area uplands were dominated by upland, weedy vegetation, and the soils
were generally very dry, mixed soils, containing gravel in some cases. The city stormwater
discharge flows into the property where it saturates the soil, likely percolating deeper and
contributing to the water table. Surface-water flows within Wetland A may drain into the
drainage ditch situated outside, but along the southern survey area boundary. The ditch appears
to flow into the Jordan River just west of the property, which drains Utah Lake and flows into
the Great Salt Lake. The palustrine emergent wetlands within the survey area either have a
surface-water connection to the drainage ditch during the early spring growing season, or are
close enough in proximity to be considered adjacent wetlands to the drainage ditch. Therefore,
Wetlands A, B and C are likely to be considered jurisdictional waters of the United States by the
USACE.


BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                                  Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                        9                          Aquatic Resources Report
These results are preliminary, and the USACE has the final decision over determining whether a
waterbody or wetland is a jurisdictional water of the United States.




BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                              Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                     10                        Aquatic Resources Report
6.0              REFERENCES CITED
Environmental Laboratory. 1987. US Army Corps of Engineers wetlands delineation manual.
       Vicksburg (MS): US Army Waterways Experiment Station. Technical Report Y-87-1.

[Kollmorgen Instruments] Kollmorgen Instruments Corporation. 1990. Munsell soil color charts.
      Revised 2000. New Windsor (NY): Kollmorgen Instruments Corporation.

Lichvar, R.W., D.L. Banks, N.C. Melvin, and W.N. Kirchner. 2018. US Army Corps of
       Engineers North American Digital Flora: National Wetlands Plant List,
       (https://wetland_plants.usace.army.mil). Hanover (NH): US Army Corps of Engineers,
       Engineer Research and Development Center, Cold Regions Research and Engineering
       Laboratory; and Chapel Hill (NC): BONAP.

[Research and Development] US Army Engineer Research and Development Center. 2008.
       Regional supplement to the Corps of Engineers wetland delineation manual: arid west
       region. Hanover (NH): US Army Engineer Research and Development Center. 93 p. plus
       appendices.

[USDA NRCS a] US Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service, Soil
     Survey Staff. 07/07/2020. Official Soil Series Descriptions
     Location: https://soilseries.sc.egov.usda.gov/osdname.aspx

[[USDA NRCS b] US Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service, Soil
     Survey Staff. 06/15/2020. Web Soil Survey.
     Location: https://websoilsurvey.sc.egov.usda.gov/App/WebSoilSurvey.aspx

USDA NRCS c] US Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service, Soil
     Survey Staff. 07/07/2020. Series Extent Explorer
     Location: https://casoilresource.lawr.ucdavis.edu/see/#chipman


[USFWS] US Fish and Wildlife Service. 06/15/2020. National Wetlands Inventory website.
     Location: http://www.fws.gov/wetlands/.




BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                            Jef Johnson Property
July 2020                                    11                       Aquatic Resources Report
  111°54'55"W40°32'10"N
  q
  AuticR
    a    u
       eso     a
           rcesHb  tT
                 ita p
                     y e                   rea(a
                                           A   cres)
  W   dA
  etlan              alu
                     P     eE
                       strin m  en
                              erg  etlan
                                  tW   d            .0
                                                    0 0
                                                      5
  W   dB
  etlan              alu
                     P     eE
                       strin m  en
                              erg  etlan
                                  tW   d            .0
                                                    0 4
                                                      1                                                                    W119
  etlan
  W   dC             alu
                     P     eE
                       strin m  en
                              erg  etlan
                                  tW   d            .0
                                                    0 7
                                                      4
                                                                                                                               00




                                                                                                           &
                                                                                                   &




                                                                                               &       &

                                                                              &
                                                                          &

                                                                                  &




                                                                                                                                     111°54'44"W40°32'6"N


    0     5
          2      0
                 5         0
                           1 e
                            0Fet   Thew   e  n
                                           tla dde  e
                                                  lina tionresults                             e
                                                                                               Lgn
                                                                                                 e d
                                   a
                                   e
                                   v
                                    rep
                                     rifie
                                          lim
                                         re
                                          db
                                               a
                                              in
                                             yth
                                                rya
                                                eU
                                                    n
                                                   SA
                                                     dh
                                                      rm
                                                        aven
                                                         yCo
                                                            o
                                                            rp
                                                              tb
                                                              so
                                                                 ee
                                                                 fE
                                                                   n
                                                                   ng e
                                                                     iners.
                                                                                      u
                                                                                      S e
                                                                                       rv re
                                                                                         yA   p
                                                                                            a-a ro
                                                                                                p .1
                                                                                                  x  3a
                                                                                                    .2   s
                                                                                                       cre               JefJohso
                                                                                                                               n  nProprty
                                                                                                                                       e
          1in q
            che a
                u  0fe
                 ls5 et                                                               e
                                                                                      D  e
                                                                                       lina  nS
                                                                                           tio m
                                                                                               a leP
                                                                                                 p o ts
                                                                                                    in
                                   We  n
                                     tlad sD lin
                                             e  a
                                                e  db
                                                  te  yT.Ty
                                                          a r,Ju
                                                           lo    ne19 0
                                                                     ,22.W
                                                                        0 e n
                                                                          tlad        u
                                                                                      C e
                                                                                       lvrts                        Dra
                                                                                                                      p erC  ,S
                                                                                                                           ity altLakeCounty
                                                                                                                                           ,UT
                                   e
                                   Dlinea  nM
                                         tio   p
                                               asP repa db
                                                       re yR  illin
                                                             .D   gham.
                                                                                  e
                                                                                  R u
                                                                                   so   y
                                                                                     rceTpe
                                   Go
                                    og leImag
                                            ery09/10/2 18
                                                       0                              a
                                                                                      P strin
                                                                                       lu   eEmrg
                                                                                               e n
                                                                                                 e  e
                                                                                                   tW  n
                                                                                                     tla   .1
                                                                                                         d-0  cre
                                                                                                             1a s
                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                                                    q uaticResou
                                                                                                                               rcesInvn
                                                                                                                                      e to
                                                                                                                                         ryM a
                                                                                                                                             p
                                   A
                                   G RCW  TMSIm a
                                                geS ervice
                                   GCS:G CSNorthAm erican198
                                                           3                           o
                                                                                       T ln
                                                                                        ta n
                                                                                           o e
                                                                                            -w  n
                                                                                              tla  re
                                                                                                  da -1
                                                                                                     a  2a
                                                                                                       .1   s
                                                                                                          cre
a
MpD
  a :7/9
   te  /20
         20
                                                    WETLAND DETERMINATION DATA FORM - Arid West Region
 Project/Site: Jef Johnson Property                                                    City/County: Draper/ Salt Lake                          Sampling Date: 19-Jun-20

 Applicant/Owner: Jef Johnson                                                                                    State: UT               Sampling Point:                      01
  Investigator(s): Travis Taylor                                                           Section, Township, Range: S 26                 T 3S            R 1W

   Landform (hillslope, terrace, etc.): terrace                                           Local relief (concave, convex, none): concave                    Slope:            1.0 % / 0.6 °
 Subregion (LRR): LRR D                                                         Lat.: 40.53548928                     Long.: -111.91360153                     Datum: WGS 1984

 Soil Map Unit Name: Ck                                                                                                          NWI classification: none

Are climatic/hydrologic conditions on the site typical for this time of year?                       Yes         No       (If no, explain in Remarks.)

 Are Vegetation             , Soil              , or Hydrology             significantly disturbed?         Are "Normal Circumstances" present?             Yes           No

 Are Vegetation             , Soil              , or Hydrology             naturally problematic?           (If needed, explain any answers in Remarks.)

 Summary of Findings - Attach site map showing sampling point locations, transects, important features, etc.
  Hydrophytic Vegetation Present?                Yes           No
                                                                                               Is the Sampled Area
  Hydric Soil Present?                           Yes           No
                                                                                               within a Wetland?         Yes        No
  Wetland Hydrology Present?                     Yes           No
   Remarks:      Sample point 01 was conducted in a low swale that intersects the property. The swale collects stormwater discharged from a
                 culvert buried underneath a shared approach road to the property and the neighboring property to the northwest. The soil at sample
                 point 01 appeared to be a mix of native soil and imported fill material.

  VEGETATION - Use scientific names of plants.                                             Dominant
                                                                                           Species?
                                                                               Absolute    Rel.Strat. Indicator      Dominance Test worksheet:
   Tree Stratum     (Plot size:                        )                       % Cover     Cover      Status
                                                                                                                     Number of Dominant Species
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   That are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                    2              (A)
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     Total Number of Dominant
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Species Across All Strata:                     2              (B)
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%

                                                                                          = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     Percent of dominant Species
                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                     That Are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                  100.0%           (A/B)
   Sapling/Shrub Stratum          (Plot size:                       )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Prevalence Index worksheet:
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                           Total % Cover of:           Multiply by
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   OBL species               30     x 1 =             30
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FACW species              20     x 2 =             40
     5.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FAC species               15     x 3 =             45
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover              FACU species              2      x 4 =              8
   Herb Stratum      (Plot size: 5' r                      )
                                                                                                                     UPL species               2      x 5 =             10
    1. Schoenoplectus pungens                                                     30          43.5%       OBL
                                                                                                                     Column Totals:            69     (A)               133         (B)
    2. Puccinellia distans                                                        20          29.0%       FACW
    3. Hordeum jubatum                                                            10          14.5%       FAC            Prevalence Index = B/A =                 1.928
    4. Rumex crispus                                                               5          7.2%        FAC        Hydrophytic Vegetation Indicators:
    5. Melilotus officinalis                                                       2          2.9%        FACU           Dominance Test is > 50%
    6. Cardaria draba                                                              2          2.9%        UPL            Prevalence Index is ≤3.0
                                                                                                                                                  1

    7.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                         Morphological Adaptations 11 (Provide supporting
    8.                                                                             0          0.0%                       data in Remarks or on a separate sheet)
    9.                                                                             0          0.0%                                                          1
                                                                                                                         Problematic Hydrophytic Vegetation 1 (Explain)
   10.                                                                             0          0.0%

   11.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                     1 Indicators of hydric soil and wetland hydrology must
                                                                                  69      = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     be present, unless disturbed or problematic.
   Woody Vine Stratum        (Plot size:                       )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                    Hydrophytic
                                                                                                                      Vegetation
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover               Present?           Yes        No
      % Bare Ground in Herb Stratum: 31                                 % Cover of Biotic Crust 0

   Remarks:




          *Indicator suffix = National status or professional decision assigned because Regional status not defined by FWS.

   US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                                                 Arid West - Version 2.0
Soil                                                                                                                  Sampling Point: 01
  Profile Description: (Describe to the depth needed to document the indicator or confirm the absence of indicators.)
    Depth                      Matrix                          Redox Features
   (inches)            Color (moist)      %       Color (moist)      %      Type 1           Loc²                Texture                      Remarks
                                                                                                         Loam                       clay and gravel mixed in
     0-14            2.5Y        5/2        95    10YR         4/6            5        C      M
                                                                                                                                    dry
    14-18              5Y        5/1        85    10YR         5/6          15         C       M         Clay
                                                                                                                                    dry
    18-20               N        5/N        95    10YR         5/6            5        C      PL         Clay




 1 Type: C=Concentration. D=Depletion. RM=Reduced Matrix, CS=Covered or Coated Sand Grains      ²Location: PL=Pore Lining. M=Matrix
  Hydric Soil Indicators: (Applicable to all LRRs, unless otherwise noted.)                               Indicators for Problematic Hydric Soils:3
     Histosol (A1)                                    Sandy Redox (S5)                                           1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR C)
     Histic Epipedon (A2)                             Stripped Matrix (S6)                                       2 cm Muck (A10) (LRR B)
     Black Histic (A3)                                Loamy Mucky Mineral (F1)                                   Reduced Vertic (F18)
     Hydrogen Sulfide (A4)
                                                      Loamy Gleyed Matrix (F2)                                   Red Parent Material (TF2)
     Stratified Layers (A5) (LRR C)
                                                      Depleted Matrix (F3)                                       Other (Explain in Remarks)
     1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR D)
                                                      Redox Dark Surface (F6)
     Depleted Below Dark Surface (A11)
                                                      Depleted Dark Surface (F7)
     Thick Dark Surface (A12)
                                                      Redox depressions (F8)                               3 Indicators of hydrophytic vegetation and
     Sandy Muck Mineral (S1)
                                                      Vernal Pools (F9)                                         wetland hydrology must be present.
     Sandy Gleyed Matrix (S4)
 Restrictive Layer (if present):
     Type:
                                                                                                         Hydric Soil Present?           Yes           No
     Depth (inches):

  Remarks:
 Hydrogen sulfide was present while digging the soil pit.




Hydrology
 Wetland Hydrology Indicators:

  Primary Indicators (minimum of one required; check all that apply)                                              Secondary Indicators (2 or more required)
     Surface Water (A1)                                  Salt Crust (B11)                                             Water Marks (B1) (Riverine)
     High Water Table (A2)                               Biotic Crust (B12)                                           Sediment Deposits (B2) (Riverine)
     Saturation (A3)                                     Aquatic Invertebrates (B13)                                  Drift Deposits (B3) Riverine)
     Water Marks (B1) (Nonriverine)                      Hydrogen Sulfide Odor (C1)                                   Drainage Patterns (B10)
     Sediment Deposits (B2) (Nonriverine)                Oxidized Rhizospheres along Living Roots (C3)                Dry Season Water Table (C2)
     Drift deposits (B3) (Noneriverine)                  Presence of Reduced Iron (C4)                                Crayfish Burrows (C8)
     Surface Soil Cracks (B6)                            Recent Iron Reduction in Plowed Soils (C6)                   Saturation Visible on Aerial Imagery (C9)
     Inundation Visible on Aerial Imagery (B7)           Thin Muck Surface (C7)                                       Shallow Aquitard (D3)
     Water-Stained Leaves (B9)                           Other (Explain in Remarks)                                   FAC-neutral Test (D5)

 Field Observations:
 Surface Water Present?           Yes        No           Depth (inches):          0
 Water Table Present?             Yes        No           Depth (inches):
 Saturation Present?                                                                           Wetland Hydrology Present?                 Yes          No
                                 Yes         No           Depth (inches):          0
 (includes capillary fringe)
 Describe Recorded Data (stream gauge, monitor well, aerial photos, previous inspections), if available:


Remarks:
 Hydrogen sulfide was present while digging the soil pit. The soil appeared episaturated due to stormwater surface drainage. Only the top 14 inches
 of the soil was saturated.



US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                      Arid West - Version 2.0
                                                     WETLAND DETERMINATION DATA FORM - Arid West Region
 Project/Site: Jef Johnson Property                                                     City/County: Draper/ Salt Lake                          Sampling Date: 19-Jun-20

 Applicant/Owner: Jef Johnson                                                                                     State: UT               Sampling Point:                      02
  Investigator(s): Travis Taylor                                                            Section, Township, Range: S 26                 T 3S            R 1W

   Landform (hillslope, terrace, etc.): Terrace                                            Local relief (concave, convex, none): convex                     Slope:            2.0 % / 1.1 °
 Subregion (LRR): LRR D                                                          Lat.: 40.53549865                     Long.: -111.91365481                     Datum: WGS 1984

 Soil Map Unit Name: Ck                                                                                                           NWI classification: none

Are climatic/hydrologic conditions on the site typical for this time of year?                        Yes         No       (If no, explain in Remarks.)

 Are Vegetation                , Soil            , or Hydrology             significantly disturbed?         Are "Normal Circumstances" present?             Yes           No

 Are Vegetation                , Soil            , or Hydrology             naturally problematic?           (If needed, explain any answers in Remarks.)

 Summary of Findings - Attach site map showing sampling point locations, transects, important features, etc.
  Hydrophytic Vegetation Present?                 Yes           No
                                                                                                Is the Sampled Area
  Hydric Soil Present?                            Yes           No
                                                                                                within a Wetland?         Yes        No
  Wetland Hydrology Present?                      Yes           No
   Remarks:       Sample point 02 was conducted on a disturbed slope adjacent to the low swale where sample point 01 was conducted.



  VEGETATION - Use scientific names of plants.                                              Dominant
                                                                                            Species?
                                                                                Absolute    Rel.Strat. Indicator      Dominance Test worksheet:
   Tree Stratum      (Plot size:                        )                       % Cover     Cover      Status
                                                                                                                      Number of Dominant Species
     1.                                                                             0          0.0%                   That are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                    1              (A)
     2.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                      Total Number of Dominant
     3.                                                                             0          0.0%                   Species Across All Strata:                     2              (B)
     4.                                                                             0          0.0%

                                                                                           = Total Cover
                                                                                                                      Percent of dominant Species
                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                      That Are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                  50.0%            (A/B)
   Sapling/Shrub Stratum           (Plot size:                       )
     1.                                                                             0          0.0%                   Prevalence Index worksheet:
     2.                                                                             0          0.0%                           Total % Cover of:           Multiply by
     3.                                                                             0          0.0%                   OBL species               0      x 1 =              0
     4.                                                                             0          0.0%                   FACW species              30     x 2 =             60
     5.                                                                             0          0.0%                   FAC species               10     x 3 =             30
                                                                                    0      = Total Cover              FACU species              30     x 4 =             120
   Herb Stratum       (Plot size: 5' r                      )
                                                                                                                      UPL species               5      x 5 =             25
    1. Puccinellia distans                                                         30          40.0%       FACW
                                                                                                                      Column Totals:            75     (A)               235         (B)
    2. Melilotus officinalis                                                       20          26.7%       FACU
    3. Hordeum jubatum                                                             10          13.3%       FAC            Prevalence Index = B/A =                 3.133
    4. Hordeum murinum                                                             10          13.3%       FACU       Hydrophytic Vegetation Indicators:
    5. Cardaria draba                                                               5          6.7%        UPL            Dominance Test is > 50%
    6.                                                                              0          0.0%                       Prevalence Index is ≤3.0
                                                                                                                                                   1

    7.                                                                              0          0.0%
                                                                                                                          Morphological Adaptations 11 (Provide supporting
    8.                                                                              0          0.0%                       data in Remarks or on a separate sheet)
    9.                                                                              0          0.0%                                                          1
                                                                                                                          Problematic Hydrophytic Vegetation 1 (Explain)
   10.                                                                              0          0.0%

   11.                                                                              0          0.0%
                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                      1 Indicators of hydric soil and wetland hydrology must
                                                                                   75      = Total Cover
                                                                                                                      be present, unless disturbed or problematic.
   Woody Vine Stratum           (Plot size:                     )
     1.                                                                             0          0.0%
     2.                                                                             0          0.0%                    Hydrophytic
                                                                                                                       Vegetation
                                                                                    0      = Total Cover               Present?           Yes        No
      % Bare Ground in Herb Stratum: 25                                  % Cover of Biotic Crust 0

   Remarks:




          *Indicator suffix = National status or professional decision assigned because Regional status not defined by FWS.

   US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                                                  Arid West - Version 2.0
Soil                                                                                                                 Sampling Point: 02
 Profile Description: (Describe to the depth needed to document the indicator or confirm the absence of indicators.)
    Depth                      Matrix                          Redox Features
   (inches)            Color (moist)      %       Color (moist)      %      Type 1           Loc²               Texture                      Remarks
                                                                                                        Loam                       dry, loose soil
     0-10            2.5Y        5/2      100
                                                                                                                                   dry
    10-16              5Y        5/2      100                                                           Clay
                                                                                                                                   dry
    16-20            2.5Y        3/1      100                                                           Clay Loam




 1 Type: C=Concentration. D=Depletion. RM=Reduced Matrix, CS=Covered or Coated Sand Grains     ²Location: PL=Pore Lining. M=Matrix
  Hydric Soil Indicators: (Applicable to all LRRs, unless otherwise noted.)                              Indicators for Problematic Hydric Soils:3
     Histosol (A1)                                    Sandy Redox (S5)                                          1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR C)
     Histic Epipedon (A2)                             Stripped Matrix (S6)                                      2 cm Muck (A10) (LRR B)
     Black Histic (A3)                                Loamy Mucky Mineral (F1)                                  Reduced Vertic (F18)
     Hydrogen Sulfide (A4)
                                                      Loamy Gleyed Matrix (F2)                                  Red Parent Material (TF2)
     Stratified Layers (A5) (LRR C)
                                                      Depleted Matrix (F3)                                      Other (Explain in Remarks)
     1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR D)
                                                      Redox Dark Surface (F6)
     Depleted Below Dark Surface (A11)
                                                      Depleted Dark Surface (F7)
     Thick Dark Surface (A12)
                                                      Redox depressions (F8)                              3 Indicators of hydrophytic vegetation and
     Sandy Muck Mineral (S1)
                                                      Vernal Pools (F9)                                        wetland hydrology must be present.
     Sandy Gleyed Matrix (S4)
 Restrictive Layer (if present):
     Type:
                                                                                                        Hydric Soil Present?           Yes           No
     Depth (inches):

  Remarks:
 No redox features were present at this sample point.




Hydrology
 Wetland Hydrology Indicators:

  Primary Indicators (minimum of one required; check all that apply)                                             Secondary Indicators (2 or more required)
     Surface Water (A1)                                 Salt Crust (B11)                                             Water Marks (B1) (Riverine)
     High Water Table (A2)                              Biotic Crust (B12)                                           Sediment Deposits (B2) (Riverine)
     Saturation (A3)                                    Aquatic Invertebrates (B13)                                  Drift Deposits (B3) Riverine)
     Water Marks (B1) (Nonriverine)                     Hydrogen Sulfide Odor (C1)                                   Drainage Patterns (B10)
     Sediment Deposits (B2) (Nonriverine)               Oxidized Rhizospheres along Living Roots (C3)                Dry Season Water Table (C2)
     Drift deposits (B3) (Noneriverine)                 Presence of Reduced Iron (C4)                                Crayfish Burrows (C8)
     Surface Soil Cracks (B6)                           Recent Iron Reduction in Plowed Soils (C6)                   Saturation Visible on Aerial Imagery (C9)
     Inundation Visible on Aerial Imagery (B7)          Thin Muck Surface (C7)                                       Shallow Aquitard (D3)
     Water-Stained Leaves (B9)                          Other (Explain in Remarks)                                   FAC-neutral Test (D5)

 Field Observations:
 Surface Water Present?           Yes       No           Depth (inches):

 Water Table Present?             Yes       No           Depth (inches):
 Saturation Present?                                                                          Wetland Hydrology Present?                 Yes          No
 (includes capillary fringe)
                                 Yes        No           Depth (inches):

 Describe Recorded Data (stream gauge, monitor well, aerial photos, previous inspections), if available:


Remarks:
 No hydrology indicators were present at this sample point.




US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                     Arid West - Version 2.0
                                                    WETLAND DETERMINATION DATA FORM - Arid West Region
 Project/Site: Jef Johnson Property                                                    City/County: Draper/ Salt Lake                          Sampling Date: 19-Jun-20

 Applicant/Owner: Jef Johnson                                                                                    State: UT               Sampling Point:                      03
  Investigator(s): Travis Taylor                                                           Section, Township, Range: S 26                 T 3S            R 1W

   Landform (hillslope, terrace, etc.): Swale                                             Local relief (concave, convex, none): concave                    Slope:            1.0 % / 0.6 °
 Subregion (LRR): LRR D                                                         Lat.: 40.535355268                    Long.: -111.91368853                     Datum: WGS 1984

 Soil Map Unit Name: Ck                                                                                                          NWI classification: none

Are climatic/hydrologic conditions on the site typical for this time of year?                       Yes         No       (If no, explain in Remarks.)

 Are Vegetation             , Soil              , or Hydrology             significantly disturbed?         Are "Normal Circumstances" present?             Yes           No

 Are Vegetation             , Soil              , or Hydrology             naturally problematic?           (If needed, explain any answers in Remarks.)

 Summary of Findings - Attach site map showing sampling point locations, transects, important features, etc.
  Hydrophytic Vegetation Present?                Yes           No
                                                                                               Is the Sampled Area
  Hydric Soil Present?                           Yes           No
                                                                                               within a Wetland?         Yes        No
  Wetland Hydrology Present?                     Yes           No
   Remarks:      Sample point 03 was conducted in a dryer portion of the same low swale where sample point 01 was conducted. The soil contained gravel
                 and appeared to be native soil mixed with fill material, likely left over from past land grading.


  VEGETATION - Use scientific names of plants.                                             Dominant
                                                                                           Species?
                                                                               Absolute    Rel.Strat. Indicator      Dominance Test worksheet:
   Tree Stratum     (Plot size:                        )                       % Cover     Cover      Status
                                                                                                                     Number of Dominant Species
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   That are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                    2              (A)
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     Total Number of Dominant
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Species Across All Strata:                     2              (B)
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%

                                                                                          = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     Percent of dominant Species
                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                     That Are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                  100.0%           (A/B)
   Sapling/Shrub Stratum          (Plot size:                       )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Prevalence Index worksheet:
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                           Total % Cover of:           Multiply by
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   OBL species               0      x 1 =              0
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FACW species              55     x 2 =             110
     5.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FAC species               26     x 3 =             78
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover              FACU species              2      x 4 =              8
   Herb Stratum      (Plot size: 5' r                      )
                                                                                                                     UPL species               7      x 5 =             35
    1. Puccinellia distans                                                        55          61.1%       FACW
                                                                                                                     Column Totals:            90     (A)               231         (B)
    2. Hordeum jubatum                                                            25          27.8%       FAC
    3. Cardaria draba                                                              5          5.6%        UPL            Prevalence Index = B/A =                 2.567
    4. Convolvulus arvensis                                                        2          2.2%        UPL        Hydrophytic Vegetation Indicators:
    5. Melilotus officinalis                                                       2          2.2%        FACU           Dominance Test is > 50%
    6. Bassia americana                                                            1          1.1%        FAC            Prevalence Index is ≤3.0
                                                                                                                                                  1

    7.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                         Morphological Adaptations 11 (Provide supporting
    8.                                                                             0          0.0%                       data in Remarks or on a separate sheet)
    9.                                                                             0          0.0%                                                          1
                                                                                                                         Problematic Hydrophytic Vegetation 1 (Explain)
   10.                                                                             0          0.0%

   11.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                     1 Indicators of hydric soil and wetland hydrology must
                                                                                  90      = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     be present, unless disturbed or problematic.
   Woody Vine Stratum          (Plot size:                     )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                    Hydrophytic
                                                                                                                      Vegetation
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover               Present?           Yes        No
      % Bare Ground in Herb Stratum: 10                                 % Cover of Biotic Crust 0

   Remarks:

   The area around sample point 03 had been invaded by upland weeds. This area could be experiencing a drying trend.


          *Indicator suffix = National status or professional decision assigned because Regional status not defined by FWS.

   US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                                                 Arid West - Version 2.0
Soil                                                                                                                  Sampling Point: 03
 Profile Description: (Describe to the depth needed to document the indicator or confirm the absence of indicators.)
    Depth                      Matrix                          Redox Features
   (inches)            Color (moist)      %       Color (moist)      %      Type 1           Loc²                Texture                      Remarks
                                                                                                         Loam                       gravel present, moist
     0-10            2.5Y        5/2        95    10YR         4/6            5        C      M
                                                                                                                                    moist
    10-18            2.5Y        5/1        95    10YR         4/6            5        C      PL         Clay Loam




 1 Type: C=Concentration. D=Depletion. RM=Reduced Matrix, CS=Covered or Coated Sand Grains      ²Location: PL=Pore Lining. M=Matrix
  Hydric Soil Indicators: (Applicable to all LRRs, unless otherwise noted.)                               Indicators for Problematic Hydric Soils:3
     Histosol (A1)                                    Sandy Redox (S5)                                           1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR C)
     Histic Epipedon (A2)                             Stripped Matrix (S6)                                       2 cm Muck (A10) (LRR B)
     Black Histic (A3)                                Loamy Mucky Mineral (F1)                                   Reduced Vertic (F18)
     Hydrogen Sulfide (A4)
                                                      Loamy Gleyed Matrix (F2)                                   Red Parent Material (TF2)
     Stratified Layers (A5) (LRR C)
                                                      Depleted Matrix (F3)                                       Other (Explain in Remarks)
     1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR D)
                                                      Redox Dark Surface (F6)
     Depleted Below Dark Surface (A11)
                                                      Depleted Dark Surface (F7)
     Thick Dark Surface (A12)
                                                      Redox depressions (F8)                               3 Indicators of hydrophytic vegetation and
     Sandy Muck Mineral (S1)
                                                      Vernal Pools (F9)                                         wetland hydrology must be present.
     Sandy Gleyed Matrix (S4)
 Restrictive Layer (if present):
     Type:
                                                                                                         Hydric Soil Present?           Yes           No
     Depth (inches):

 Remarks:




Hydrology
 Wetland Hydrology Indicators:

  Primary Indicators (minimum of one required; check all that apply)                                              Secondary Indicators (2 or more required)
     Surface Water (A1)                                  Salt Crust (B11)                                             Water Marks (B1) (Riverine)
     High Water Table (A2)                               Biotic Crust (B12)                                           Sediment Deposits (B2) (Riverine)
     Saturation (A3)                                     Aquatic Invertebrates (B13)                                  Drift Deposits (B3) Riverine)
     Water Marks (B1) (Nonriverine)                      Hydrogen Sulfide Odor (C1)                                   Drainage Patterns (B10)
     Sediment Deposits (B2) (Nonriverine)                Oxidized Rhizospheres along Living Roots (C3)                Dry Season Water Table (C2)
     Drift deposits (B3) (Noneriverine)                  Presence of Reduced Iron (C4)                                Crayfish Burrows (C8)
     Surface Soil Cracks (B6)                            Recent Iron Reduction in Plowed Soils (C6)                   Saturation Visible on Aerial Imagery (C9)
     Inundation Visible on Aerial Imagery (B7)           Thin Muck Surface (C7)                                       Shallow Aquitard (D3)
     Water-Stained Leaves (B9)                           Other (Explain in Remarks)                                   FAC-neutral Test (D5)

 Field Observations:
 Surface Water Present?           Yes        No           Depth (inches):

 Water Table Present?             Yes        No           Depth (inches):
 Saturation Present?                                                                           Wetland Hydrology Present?                Yes           No
 (includes capillary fringe)
                                 Yes         No           Depth (inches):

 Describe Recorded Data (stream gauge, monitor well, aerial photos, previous inspections), if available:


Remarks:
 The property owner explained that flushing of a nearby fire hydrant caused water to flow through the storm drain leading to surface water in this
 location. This area may be experiencing a drying trend.



US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                      Arid West - Version 2.0
                                                    WETLAND DETERMINATION DATA FORM - Arid West Region
 Project/Site: Jef Johnson Property                                                    City/County: Draper/ Salt Lake                          Sampling Date: 19-Jun-20

 Applicant/Owner: Jef Johnson                                                                                    State: UT               Sampling Point:                      04
  Investigator(s): Travis Taylor                                                           Section, Township, Range: S 26                 T 3S            R 1W

   Landform (hillslope, terrace, etc.): Terrace                                           Local relief (concave, convex, none): convex                     Slope:            0.0 % / 0.0 °
 Subregion (LRR): LRR D                                                         Lat.: 40.53535044                     Long.: -111.91364301                     Datum: WGS 1984

 Soil Map Unit Name: Ck                                                                                                          NWI classification: none

Are climatic/hydrologic conditions on the site typical for this time of year?                       Yes         No       (If no, explain in Remarks.)

 Are Vegetation             , Soil              , or Hydrology             significantly disturbed?         Are "Normal Circumstances" present?             Yes           No

 Are Vegetation             , Soil              , or Hydrology             naturally problematic?           (If needed, explain any answers in Remarks.)

 Summary of Findings - Attach site map showing sampling point locations, transects, important features, etc.
  Hydrophytic Vegetation Present?                Yes           No
                                                                                               Is the Sampled Area
  Hydric Soil Present?                           Yes           No
                                                                                               within a Wetland?         Yes        No
  Wetland Hydrology Present?                     Yes           No
   Remarks:      Sample point 04 was conducted on a mounded area at the edge of the property boundary.



  VEGETATION - Use scientific names of plants.                                             Dominant
                                                                                           Species?
                                                                               Absolute    Rel.Strat. Indicator      Dominance Test worksheet:
   Tree Stratum     (Plot size:                        )                       % Cover     Cover      Status
                                                                                                                     Number of Dominant Species
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   That are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                    1              (A)
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     Total Number of Dominant
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Species Across All Strata:                     2              (B)
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%

                                                                                          = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     Percent of dominant Species
                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                     That Are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                  50.0%            (A/B)
   Sapling/Shrub Stratum          (Plot size:                       )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Prevalence Index worksheet:
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                           Total % Cover of:           Multiply by
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   OBL species               0      x 1 =              0
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FACW species              40     x 2 =             80
     5.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FAC species               15     x 3 =             45
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover              FACU species              30     x 4 =             120
   Herb Stratum      (Plot size: 5' r                      )
                                                                                                                     UPL species               5      x 5 =             25
    1. Puccinellia distans                                                        40          44.4%       FACW
                                                                                                                     Column Totals:            90     (A)               270         (B)
    2. Melilotus officinalis                                                      20          22.2%       FACU
    3. Chenopodium album                                                          10          11.1%       FACU           Prevalence Index = B/A =                 3.000
    4. Hordeum jubatum                                                            10          11.1%       FAC        Hydrophytic Vegetation Indicators:
    5. Cardaria draba                                                              5          5.6%        UPL            Dominance Test is > 50%
    6. Polygonum aviculare                                                         5          5.6%        FAC            Prevalence Index is ≤3.0
                                                                                                                                                  1

    7.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                         Morphological Adaptations 11 (Provide supporting
    8.                                                                             0          0.0%                       data in Remarks or on a separate sheet)
    9.                                                                             0          0.0%                                                          1
                                                                                                                         Problematic Hydrophytic Vegetation 1 (Explain)
   10.                                                                             0          0.0%

   11.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                     1 Indicators of hydric soil and wetland hydrology must
                                                                                  90      = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     be present, unless disturbed or problematic.
   Woody Vine Stratum          (Plot size:                     )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                    Hydrophytic
                                                                                                                      Vegetation
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover               Present?           Yes        No
      % Bare Ground in Herb Stratum: 10                                 % Cover of Biotic Crust 0

   Remarks:




          *Indicator suffix = National status or professional decision assigned because Regional status not defined by FWS.

   US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                                                 Arid West - Version 2.0
Soil                                                                                                                 Sampling Point: 04
  Profile Description: (Describe to the depth needed to document the indicator or confirm the absence of indicators.)
    Depth                      Matrix                          Redox Features
   (inches)            Color (moist)      %       Color (moist)      %      Type 1           Loc²               Texture                      Remarks
                                                                                                        Loam                       mixed layer with gravel
     0-4             2.5Y        5/2        60
                                                                                                                                   mixed layer with gravel
     0-4             10YR        4/4        40                                                          Sand
                                                                                                                                   loose, dry
     4-18            10YR        5/2      100                                                           Loam




 1 Type: C=Concentration. D=Depletion. RM=Reduced Matrix, CS=Covered or Coated Sand Grains     ²Location: PL=Pore Lining. M=Matrix
  Hydric Soil Indicators: (Applicable to all LRRs, unless otherwise noted.)                              Indicators for Problematic Hydric Soils:3
     Histosol (A1)                                    Sandy Redox (S5)                                          1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR C)
     Histic Epipedon (A2)                             Stripped Matrix (S6)                                      2 cm Muck (A10) (LRR B)
     Black Histic (A3)                                Loamy Mucky Mineral (F1)                                  Reduced Vertic (F18)
     Hydrogen Sulfide (A4)
                                                      Loamy Gleyed Matrix (F2)                                  Red Parent Material (TF2)
     Stratified Layers (A5) (LRR C)
                                                      Depleted Matrix (F3)                                      Other (Explain in Remarks)
     1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR D)
                                                      Redox Dark Surface (F6)
     Depleted Below Dark Surface (A11)
                                                      Depleted Dark Surface (F7)
     Thick Dark Surface (A12)
                                                      Redox depressions (F8)                              3 Indicators of hydrophytic vegetation and
     Sandy Muck Mineral (S1)
                                                      Vernal Pools (F9)                                        wetland hydrology must be present.
     Sandy Gleyed Matrix (S4)
 Restrictive Layer (if present):
     Type:
                                                                                                        Hydric Soil Present?           Yes           No
     Depth (inches):

  Remarks:
 The entire soil profile was dry, and the upper soil layer was mixed and contained gravel.




Hydrology
 Wetland Hydrology Indicators:

  Primary Indicators (minimum of one required; check all that apply)                                             Secondary Indicators (2 or more required)
     Surface Water (A1)                                Salt Crust (B11)                                              Water Marks (B1) (Riverine)
     High Water Table (A2)                             Biotic Crust (B12)                                            Sediment Deposits (B2) (Riverine)
     Saturation (A3)                                   Aquatic Invertebrates (B13)                                   Drift Deposits (B3) Riverine)
     Water Marks (B1) (Nonriverine)                    Hydrogen Sulfide Odor (C1)                                    Drainage Patterns (B10)
     Sediment Deposits (B2) (Nonriverine)               Oxidized Rhizospheres along Living Roots (C3)                Dry Season Water Table (C2)
     Drift deposits (B3) (Noneriverine)                 Presence of Reduced Iron (C4)                                Crayfish Burrows (C8)
     Surface Soil Cracks (B6)                           Recent Iron Reduction in Plowed Soils (C6)                   Saturation Visible on Aerial Imagery (C9)
     Inundation Visible on Aerial Imagery (B7)          Thin Muck Surface (C7)                                       Shallow Aquitard (D3)
     Water-Stained Leaves (B9)                          Other (Explain in Remarks)                                   FAC-neutral Test (D5)

 Field Observations:
 Surface Water Present?           Yes        No          Depth (inches):

 Water Table Present?             Yes        No          Depth (inches):
 Saturation Present?                                                                          Wetland Hydrology Present?                Yes           No
 (includes capillary fringe)
                                 Yes         No          Depth (inches):

 Describe Recorded Data (stream gauge, monitor well, aerial photos, previous inspections), if available:


Remarks:
 No hydrology indicators were present at this sample point.




US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                     Arid West - Version 2.0
                                                    WETLAND DETERMINATION DATA FORM - Arid West Region
 Project/Site: Jef Johnson Property                                                    City/County: Draper/ Salt Lake                          Sampling Date: 19-Jun-20

 Applicant/Owner: Jef Johnson                                                                                    State: UT               Sampling Point:                      05
  Investigator(s): Travis Taylor                                                           Section, Township, Range: S 26                 T 3S            R 1W

   Landform (hillslope, terrace, etc.): Terrace                                           Local relief (concave, convex, none): concave                    Slope:            0.0 % / 0.0 °
 Subregion (LRR): LRR D                                                         Lat.: 40.53520209                     Long.: -111.9394536                      Datum: WGS 1984

 Soil Map Unit Name: Ck                                                                                                          NWI classification: none

Are climatic/hydrologic conditions on the site typical for this time of year?                       Yes         No       (If no, explain in Remarks.)

 Are Vegetation               , Soil            , or Hydrology             significantly disturbed?         Are "Normal Circumstances" present?             Yes           No

 Are Vegetation               , Soil            , or Hydrology             naturally problematic?           (If needed, explain any answers in Remarks.)

 Summary of Findings - Attach site map showing sampling point locations, transects, important features, etc.
  Hydrophytic Vegetation Present?                Yes           No
                                                                                               Is the Sampled Area
  Hydric Soil Present?                           Yes           No
                                                                                               within a Wetland?         Yes        No
  Wetland Hydrology Present?                     Yes           No
   Remarks:      Sample point 05 was conducted adjacent to a drainage swale which was surrounded by spoil piles and mounds from ditch dredging on the
                 neighboring property to the south. The swale may be a remnant ditch lateral.


  VEGETATION - Use scientific names of plants.                                             Dominant
                                                                                           Species?
                                                                               Absolute    Rel.Strat. Indicator      Dominance Test worksheet:
   Tree Stratum     (Plot size:                        )                       % Cover     Cover      Status
                                                                                                                     Number of Dominant Species
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   That are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                    2              (A)
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     Total Number of Dominant
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Species Across All Strata:                     3              (B)
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%

                                                                                          = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     Percent of dominant Species
                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                     That Are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                  66.7%            (A/B)
   Sapling/Shrub Stratum          (Plot size:                       )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Prevalence Index worksheet:
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                           Total % Cover of:           Multiply by
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   OBL species               0      x 1 =              0
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FACW species              65     x 2 =             130
     5.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FAC species               10     x 3 =             30
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover              FACU species              0      x 4 =              0
   Herb Stratum      (Plot size: 5' r                      )
                                                                                                                     UPL species               15     x 5 =             75
    1. Phragmites australis                                                       40          44.4%       FACW
                                                                                                                     Column Totals:            90     (A)               235         (B)
    2. Juncus balticus                                                            15          16.7%       FACW
    3. Cardaria draba                                                             15          16.7%       UPL            Prevalence Index = B/A =                 2.611
    4. Asclepias speciosa                                                         10          11.1%       FAC        Hydrophytic Vegetation Indicators:
    5. Corydalis caseana                                                          10          11.1%       FACW           Dominance Test is > 50%
    6.                                                                             0          0.0%                       Prevalence Index is ≤3.0
                                                                                                                                                  1

    7.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                         Morphological Adaptations 11 (Provide supporting
    8.                                                                             0          0.0%                       data in Remarks or on a separate sheet)
    9.                                                                             0          0.0%                                                          1
                                                                                                                         Problematic Hydrophytic Vegetation 1 (Explain)
   10.                                                                             0          0.0%

   11.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                     1 Indicators of hydric soil and wetland hydrology must
                                                                                  90      = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     be present, unless disturbed or problematic.
   Woody Vine Stratum          (Plot size:                     )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                    Hydrophytic
                                                                                                                      Vegetation
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover               Present?           Yes        No
      % Bare Ground in Herb Stratum: 10                                 % Cover of Biotic Crust 0

   Remarks:

   The bare areas were covered in grass litter.


          *Indicator suffix = National status or professional decision assigned because Regional status not defined by FWS.

   US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                                                 Arid West - Version 2.0
Soil                                                                                                                  Sampling Point: 05
 Profile Description: (Describe to the depth needed to document the indicator or confirm the absence of indicators.)
    Depth                      Matrix                          Redox Features
   (inches)            Color (moist)      %       Color (moist)      %      Type 1           Loc²                Texture                      Remarks
                                                                                                         Silt                       30% sand grains
     0-8             10YR        4/2        98    10YR         4/6            2        C      M
     8-16            10YR        3/1      100




 1 Type: C=Concentration. D=Depletion. RM=Reduced Matrix, CS=Covered or Coated Sand Grains      ²Location: PL=Pore Lining. M=Matrix
  Hydric Soil Indicators: (Applicable to all LRRs, unless otherwise noted.)                                Indicators for Problematic Hydric Soils:3
     Histosol (A1)                                    Sandy Redox (S5)                                           1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR C)
     Histic Epipedon (A2)                             Stripped Matrix (S6)                                       2 cm Muck (A10) (LRR B)
     Black Histic (A3)                                Loamy Mucky Mineral (F1)                                   Reduced Vertic (F18)
     Hydrogen Sulfide (A4)
                                                      Loamy Gleyed Matrix (F2)                                   Red Parent Material (TF2)
     Stratified Layers (A5) (LRR C)
                                                      Depleted Matrix (F3)                                       Other (Explain in Remarks)
     1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR D)
                                                      Redox Dark Surface (F6)
     Depleted Below Dark Surface (A11)
                                                      Depleted Dark Surface (F7)
     Thick Dark Surface (A12)
                                                      Redox depressions (F8)                                3 Indicators of hydrophytic vegetation and
     Sandy Muck Mineral (S1)
                                                      Vernal Pools (F9)                                         wetland hydrology must be present.
     Sandy Gleyed Matrix (S4)
 Restrictive Layer (if present):
     Type:
                                                                                                         Hydric Soil Present?           Yes           No
     Depth (inches):

 Remarks:




Hydrology
 Wetland Hydrology Indicators:

  Primary Indicators (minimum of one required; check all that apply)                                              Secondary Indicators (2 or more required)
     Surface Water (A1)                                  Salt Crust (B11)                                             Water Marks (B1) (Riverine)
     High Water Table (A2)                               Biotic Crust (B12)                                           Sediment Deposits (B2) (Riverine)
     Saturation (A3)                                     Aquatic Invertebrates (B13)                                  Drift Deposits (B3) Riverine)
     Water Marks (B1) (Nonriverine)                      Hydrogen Sulfide Odor (C1)                                   Drainage Patterns (B10)
     Sediment Deposits (B2) (Nonriverine)                Oxidized Rhizospheres along Living Roots (C3)                Dry Season Water Table (C2)
     Drift deposits (B3) (Noneriverine)                  Presence of Reduced Iron (C4)                                Crayfish Burrows (C8)
     Surface Soil Cracks (B6)                            Recent Iron Reduction in Plowed Soils (C6)                   Saturation Visible on Aerial Imagery (C9)
     Inundation Visible on Aerial Imagery (B7)           Thin Muck Surface (C7)                                       Shallow Aquitard (D3)
     Water-Stained Leaves (B9)                           Other (Explain in Remarks)                                   FAC-neutral Test (D5)

 Field Observations:
 Surface Water Present?           Yes        No           Depth (inches):

 Water Table Present?             Yes        No           Depth (inches):          4
 Saturation Present?                                                                           Wetland Hydrology Present?                Yes           No
                                 Yes         No           Depth (inches):          0
 (includes capillary fringe)
 Describe Recorded Data (stream gauge, monitor well, aerial photos, previous inspections), if available:


Remarks:




US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                      Arid West - Version 2.0
                                                    WETLAND DETERMINATION DATA FORM - Arid West Region
 Project/Site: Jef Johnson Property                                                    City/County: Draper/ Salt Lake                          Sampling Date: 19-Jun-20

 Applicant/Owner: Jef Johnson                                                                                    State: UT               Sampling Point:                      06
  Investigator(s): Travis Taylor                                                           Section, Township, Range: S 26                 T 3S            R 1W

   Landform (hillslope, terrace, etc.): Swale                                             Local relief (concave, convex, none): concave                    Slope:            1.0 % / 0.6 °
 Subregion (LRR): LRR D                                                         Lat.: 40.53529902                     Long.: -111.91410673                     Datum: WGS 1984

 Soil Map Unit Name: Ck                                                                                                          NWI classification: none

Are climatic/hydrologic conditions on the site typical for this time of year?                       Yes         No       (If no, explain in Remarks.)

 Are Vegetation             , Soil              , or Hydrology             significantly disturbed?         Are "Normal Circumstances" present?             Yes           No

 Are Vegetation             , Soil              , or Hydrology             naturally problematic?           (If needed, explain any answers in Remarks.)

 Summary of Findings - Attach site map showing sampling point locations, transects, important features, etc.
  Hydrophytic Vegetation Present?                Yes           No
                                                                                               Is the Sampled Area
  Hydric Soil Present?                           Yes           No
                                                                                               within a Wetland?         Yes        No
  Wetland Hydrology Present?                     Yes           No
   Remarks:      Sample point 06 was conducted in a low depression that appears to collect stormwater drainage. This area may be experiencing a drying
                 trend.


  VEGETATION - Use scientific names of plants.                                             Dominant
                                                                                           Species?
                                                                               Absolute    Rel.Strat. Indicator      Dominance Test worksheet:
   Tree Stratum     (Plot size:                        )                       % Cover     Cover      Status
                                                                                                                     Number of Dominant Species
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   That are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                    3              (A)
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     Total Number of Dominant
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Species Across All Strata:                     3              (B)
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%

                                                                                          = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     Percent of dominant Species
                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                     That Are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                  100.0%           (A/B)
   Sapling/Shrub Stratum          (Plot size:                       )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Prevalence Index worksheet:
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                           Total % Cover of:           Multiply by
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   OBL species               5      x 1 =              5
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FACW species              55     x 2 =             110
     5.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FAC species               20     x 3 =             60
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover              FACU species              3      x 4 =             12
   Herb Stratum      (Plot size: 5' r                      )
                                                                                                                     UPL species               2      x 5 =             10
    1. Puccinellia distans                                                        30          35.3%       FACW
                                                                                                                     Column Totals:            85     (A)               197         (B)
    2. Hordeum jubatum                                                            15          17.6%       FAC
    3. Symphyotrichum ciliatum                                                    15          17.6%       FACW           Prevalence Index = B/A =                 2.318
    4. Phalaris arundinacea                                                       10          11.8%       FACW       Hydrophytic Vegetation Indicators:
    5. Schoenoplectus pungens                                                      5          5.9%        OBL            Dominance Test is > 50%
    6. Distichlis spicata                                                          5          5.9%        FAC            Prevalence Index is ≤3.0
                                                                                                                                                  1

    7. Melilotus officinalis                                                       2          2.4%        FACU
                                                                                                                         Morphological Adaptations 11 (Provide supporting
    8. Cardaria draba                                                              2          2.4%        UPL            data in Remarks or on a separate sheet)
    9. Lactuca serriola                                                            1          1.2%        FACU                                              1
                                                                                                                         Problematic Hydrophytic Vegetation 1 (Explain)
   10.                                                                             0          0.0%

   11.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                     1 Indicators of hydric soil and wetland hydrology must
                                                                                  85      = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     be present, unless disturbed or problematic.
   Woody Vine Stratum        (Plot size:                       )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                    Hydrophytic
                                                                                                                      Vegetation
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover               Present?           Yes        No
      % Bare Ground in Herb Stratum: 15                                 % Cover of Biotic Crust 0

   Remarks:




          *Indicator suffix = National status or professional decision assigned because Regional status not defined by FWS.

   US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                                                 Arid West - Version 2.0
Soil                                                                                                                  Sampling Point: 06
 Profile Description: (Describe to the depth needed to document the indicator or confirm the absence of indicators.)
    Depth                      Matrix                          Redox Features
   (inches)            Color (moist)      %       Color (moist)      %      Type 1           Loc²                Texture                      Remarks
                                                                                                         Clay                       moist, H2S odor
     0-8               5Y        5/2        98    10YR         4/6            2        C      M
                                                                                                                                    saturated at 12 inches
     8-14            2.5Y        5/2        90    10YR         4/6          10         C      PL         Loam
                                                                                                                                    some sand grains, saturated
    14-18            2.5Y        3/1      100                                                            Silt




 1 Type: C=Concentration. D=Depletion. RM=Reduced Matrix, CS=Covered or Coated Sand Grains      ²Location: PL=Pore Lining. M=Matrix
  Hydric Soil Indicators: (Applicable to all LRRs, unless otherwise noted.)                                Indicators for Problematic Hydric Soils:3
     Histosol (A1)                                    Sandy Redox (S5)                                           1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR C)
     Histic Epipedon (A2)                             Stripped Matrix (S6)                                       2 cm Muck (A10) (LRR B)
     Black Histic (A3)                                Loamy Mucky Mineral (F1)                                   Reduced Vertic (F18)
     Hydrogen Sulfide (A4)
                                                      Loamy Gleyed Matrix (F2)                                   Red Parent Material (TF2)
     Stratified Layers (A5) (LRR C)
                                                      Depleted Matrix (F3)                                       Other (Explain in Remarks)
     1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR D)
                                                      Redox Dark Surface (F6)
     Depleted Below Dark Surface (A11)
                                                      Depleted Dark Surface (F7)
     Thick Dark Surface (A12)
                                                      Redox depressions (F8)                                3 Indicators of hydrophytic vegetation and
     Sandy Muck Mineral (S1)
                                                      Vernal Pools (F9)                                         wetland hydrology must be present.
     Sandy Gleyed Matrix (S4)
 Restrictive Layer (if present):
     Type:
                                                                                                         Hydric Soil Present?           Yes           No
     Depth (inches):

 Remarks:




Hydrology
 Wetland Hydrology Indicators:

  Primary Indicators (minimum of one required; check all that apply)                                              Secondary Indicators (2 or more required)
     Surface Water (A1)                                  Salt Crust (B11)                                             Water Marks (B1) (Riverine)
     High Water Table (A2)                               Biotic Crust (B12)                                           Sediment Deposits (B2) (Riverine)
     Saturation (A3)                                     Aquatic Invertebrates (B13)                                  Drift Deposits (B3) Riverine)
     Water Marks (B1) (Nonriverine)                      Hydrogen Sulfide Odor (C1)                                   Drainage Patterns (B10)
     Sediment Deposits (B2) (Nonriverine)                Oxidized Rhizospheres along Living Roots (C3)                Dry Season Water Table (C2)
     Drift deposits (B3) (Noneriverine)                  Presence of Reduced Iron (C4)                                Crayfish Burrows (C8)
     Surface Soil Cracks (B6)                            Recent Iron Reduction in Plowed Soils (C6)                   Saturation Visible on Aerial Imagery (C9)
     Inundation Visible on Aerial Imagery (B7)           Thin Muck Surface (C7)                                       Shallow Aquitard (D3)
     Water-Stained Leaves (B9)                           Other (Explain in Remarks)                                   FAC-neutral Test (D5)

 Field Observations:
 Surface Water Present?           Yes        No           Depth (inches):

 Water Table Present?             Yes        No           Depth (inches):          18
 Saturation Present?                                                                           Wetland Hydrology Present?                Yes           No
                                 Yes         No           Depth (inches):          12
 (includes capillary fringe)
 Describe Recorded Data (stream gauge, monitor well, aerial photos, previous inspections), if available:


Remarks:
 Hydrology did not meet Wetland Hydrology Indicator A2 (High Water Table) because the water table must begin within 12 inches of the soil surface
 according to the regional supplement (Arid West Region). However, the water table may be higher at different times during the growing season.



US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                      Arid West - Version 2.0
                                                    WETLAND DETERMINATION DATA FORM - Arid West Region
 Project/Site: Jef Johnson Property                                                    City/County: Draper/ Salt Lake                          Sampling Date: 19-Jun-20

 Applicant/Owner: Jef Johnson                                                                                    State: UT               Sampling Point:                      07
  Investigator(s): Travis Taylor                                                           Section, Township, Range: S 26                 T 3S            R 1W

   Landform (hillslope, terrace, etc.): Terrace                                           Local relief (concave, convex, none): convex                     Slope:            1.0 % / 0.6 °
 Subregion (LRR): LRR D                                                         Lat.: 40.53228173                     Long.: -111.91396923                     Datum: WGS 1984

 Soil Map Unit Name: Ck                                                                                                          NWI classification: none

Are climatic/hydrologic conditions on the site typical for this time of year?                       Yes         No       (If no, explain in Remarks.)

 Are Vegetation             , Soil              , or Hydrology             significantly disturbed?         Are "Normal Circumstances" present?             Yes           No

 Are Vegetation             , Soil              , or Hydrology             naturally problematic?           (If needed, explain any answers in Remarks.)

 Summary of Findings - Attach site map showing sampling point locations, transects, important features, etc.
  Hydrophytic Vegetation Present?                Yes           No
                                                                                               Is the Sampled Area
  Hydric Soil Present?                           Yes           No
                                                                                               within a Wetland?         Yes        No
  Wetland Hydrology Present?                     Yes           No
   Remarks:      Sample point 07 was conducted in a disturbed, graded location.



  VEGETATION - Use scientific names of plants.                                             Dominant
                                                                                           Species?
                                                                               Absolute    Rel.Strat. Indicator      Dominance Test worksheet:
   Tree Stratum     (Plot size:                        )                       % Cover     Cover      Status
                                                                                                                     Number of Dominant Species
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   That are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                    1              (A)
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     Total Number of Dominant
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Species Across All Strata:                     2              (B)
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%

                                                                                          = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     Percent of dominant Species
                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                     That Are OBL, FACW, or FAC:                  50.0%            (A/B)
   Sapling/Shrub Stratum          (Plot size:                       )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%                   Prevalence Index worksheet:
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                           Total % Cover of:           Multiply by
     3.                                                                            0          0.0%                   OBL species               0      x 1 =              0
     4.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FACW species              15     x 2 =             30
     5.                                                                            0          0.0%                   FAC species               5      x 3 =             15
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover              FACU species              47     x 4 =             188
   Herb Stratum      (Plot size: 5' r                      )
                                                                                                                     UPL species               2      x 5 =             10
    1. Chenopodium album                                                          30          42.3%       FACU
                                                                                                                     Column Totals:            69     (A)               243         (B)
    2. Puccinellia distans                                                        15          21.1%       FACW
    3. Melilotus officinalis                                                      10          14.1%       FACU           Prevalence Index = B/A =                 3.522
    4. Hordeum murinum                                                             5          7.0%        FACU       Hydrophytic Vegetation Indicators:
    5. Hordeum jubatum                                                             5          7.0%        FAC            Dominance Test is > 50%
    6. Cardaria draba                                                              2          2.8%        UPL            Prevalence Index is ≤3.0
                                                                                                                                                  1

    7. Lepidium perfoliatum                                                        2          2.8%        FACU
                                                                                                                         Morphological Adaptations 11 (Provide supporting
    8.                                                                             2          2.8%                       data in Remarks or on a separate sheet)
    9.                                                                             0          0.0%                                                          1
                                                                                                                         Problematic Hydrophytic Vegetation 1 (Explain)
   10.                                                                             0          0.0%

   11.                                                                             0          0.0%
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                     1 Indicators of hydric soil and wetland hydrology must
                                                                                  71      = Total Cover
                                                                                                                     be present, unless disturbed or problematic.
   Woody Vine Stratum          (Plot size:                     )
     1.                                                                            0          0.0%
     2.                                                                            0          0.0%                    Hydrophytic
                                                                                                                      Vegetation
                                                                                   0      = Total Cover               Present?           Yes        No
      % Bare Ground in Herb Stratum: 29                                 % Cover of Biotic Crust 0

   Remarks:




          *Indicator suffix = National status or professional decision assigned because Regional status not defined by FWS.

   US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                                                 Arid West - Version 2.0
Soil                                                                                                                  Sampling Point: 07
  Profile Description: (Describe to the depth needed to document the indicator or confirm the absence of indicators.)
    Depth                      Matrix                          Redox Features
   (inches)            Color (moist)      %       Color (moist)      %      Type 1           Loc²                Texture                      Remarks
                                                                                                         Loam                       dry, friable
     0-10            2.5Y        5/3      100
                                                                                                                                    mixed layer
    10-16            2.5Y        5/2        45    10YR         3/6            5        C       M         Clay Loam
                                                                                                                                    mixed layer
    10-16            2.5Y        3/1        50                                                           Clay Loam
                                                                                                                                    moist, not saturated
    16-18            2.5Y        5/2      100                                                            Clay




 1 Type: C=Concentration. D=Depletion. RM=Reduced Matrix, CS=Covered or Coated Sand Grains      ²Location: PL=Pore Lining. M=Matrix
  Hydric Soil Indicators: (Applicable to all LRRs, unless otherwise noted.)                               Indicators for Problematic Hydric Soils:3
     Histosol (A1)                                    Sandy Redox (S5)                                           1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR C)
     Histic Epipedon (A2)                             Stripped Matrix (S6)                                       2 cm Muck (A10) (LRR B)
     Black Histic (A3)                                Loamy Mucky Mineral (F1)                                   Reduced Vertic (F18)
     Hydrogen Sulfide (A4)
                                                      Loamy Gleyed Matrix (F2)                                   Red Parent Material (TF2)
     Stratified Layers (A5) (LRR C)
                                                      Depleted Matrix (F3)                                       Other (Explain in Remarks)
     1 cm Muck (A9) (LRR D)
                                                      Redox Dark Surface (F6)
     Depleted Below Dark Surface (A11)
                                                      Depleted Dark Surface (F7)
     Thick Dark Surface (A12)
                                                      Redox depressions (F8)                               3 Indicators of hydrophytic vegetation and
     Sandy Muck Mineral (S1)
                                                      Vernal Pools (F9)                                         wetland hydrology must be present.
     Sandy Gleyed Matrix (S4)
 Restrictive Layer (if present):
     Type:
                                                                                                         Hydric Soil Present?           Yes           No
     Depth (inches):

  Remarks:
 Soils did not meet Hydric Soil Indicator F3 (Depleted Matrix) because the depleted layer must compose at least 60 percent of the soil matrix.




Hydrology
 Wetland Hydrology Indicators:

  Primary Indicators (minimum of one required; check all that apply)                                              Secondary Indicators (2 or more required)
     Surface Water (A1)                                  Salt Crust (B11)                                             Water Marks (B1) (Riverine)
     High Water Table (A2)                               Biotic Crust (B12)                                           Sediment Deposits (B2) (Riverine)
     Saturation (A3)                                     Aquatic Invertebrates (B13)                                  Drift Deposits (B3) Riverine)
     Water Marks (B1) (Nonriverine)                      Hydrogen Sulfide Odor (C1)                                   Drainage Patterns (B10)
     Sediment Deposits (B2) (Nonriverine)                Oxidized Rhizospheres along Living Roots (C3)                Dry Season Water Table (C2)
     Drift deposits (B3) (Noneriverine)                  Presence of Reduced Iron (C4)                                Crayfish Burrows (C8)
     Surface Soil Cracks (B6)                            Recent Iron Reduction in Plowed Soils (C6)                   Saturation Visible on Aerial Imagery (C9)
     Inundation Visible on Aerial Imagery (B7)           Thin Muck Surface (C7)                                       Shallow Aquitard (D3)
     Water-Stained Leaves (B9)                           Other (Explain in Remarks)                                   FAC-neutral Test (D5)

 Field Observations:
 Surface Water Present?           Yes        No           Depth (inches):

 Water Table Present?             Yes        No           Depth (inches):
 Saturation Present?                                                                           Wetland Hydrology Present?                Yes           No
 (includes capillary fringe)
                                 Yes         No           Depth (inches):

 Describe Recorded Data (stream gauge, monitor well, aerial photos, previous inspections), if available:


Remarks:
 No hydrology indicators were present at this sample point.




US Army Corps of Engineers                                                                                                      Arid West - Version 2.0
