Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: February 2, 2021
Re: City Initiated Chickens for Familial Gain Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to DCMC Sections 9-3-040, 9-9-080, 9-10-090, and 9-27-055. The applicant is requesting that a Text Amendment be approved to adjust, or eliminate the number of chickens allowed in certain zones, and for additional clarifying updates to the text. The proposal seeks to remove the current allowance of chickens in the RM1 and RM2 zones, and in other residential and agricultural zones to tie the number of chickens allowed for familial gain to the size of the property.
This item is scheduled for the January 28, 2021 Planning Commission meeting and an update of that meeting will be presented to the City Council at the February 2, 2021 meeting. The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For Denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendment creates a conflict other sections or parts of this title or the general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have not been fully evaluated, or are detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and do not represent an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1475 1/26/2021 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 1/26/2021 Cover Memo