                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                       August 18, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: August 26, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:     Larson Zone Change – Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0111-2021
        Applicant:        Mark Larson
        Project Location: 12990 S Boulter Street
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² lot minimum size) Zone
        Acreage:          1.95 Acres (Approximately 84,942 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment in the RA1 zone
                          regarding a rezone on the property from the RA1 zoning designation
                          to the RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum size)
                          zoning designation.




BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map amendment for approximately
1.95 acres located on the west side of Boulter Street, at approximately 12990 S Boulter
Street (Exhibit C). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a
Zoning Map Amendment be approved to rezone the entire property to the RA2 zoning
designation for a potential future subdivision of the property.

The single-family home on the property was built in 1955 and the property is not part of a
recorded subdivision.




Larson Zone Change                                               App. # TEXTMAP-0111-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This
category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA1 zoning classification, supporting approximately
one dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit E). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The RA1 zoning abuts the subject property on the south;
RA1 and RA2 abuts on the north; RA2 to the east and west.



Larson Zone Change                                                   App. # TEXTMAP-0111-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     2
Zoning Map Amendment. The RA1 and RA2 zoning designations share similar characteristics,
but the main difference being the minimum area requirements for lots; RA1 at
approximately 40,000 sf and RA2 at approximately 20,000 sf minimums. The applicant is
looking to rezone the entire property for a potential subdivision of the parcel into three lots
(Exhibit B).

Criteria For Approval. A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in
making a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider
the following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
               of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
               property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
               facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
               water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



Larson Zone Change                                                App. # TEXTMAP-0111-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                   3
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation as are follows:

   1.   That DCMC Section 9-5-060(E) provides for and outlines the process for amending
        the zoning text and maps of the DCMC.
   2.   That this map amendment does not compromise any of the five factors listed in
        DCMC Section 9-5-060(E)(1).

The findings for a negative recommendation as are follows:

   1.   That this map amendment compromises one or more of the five factors listed in
        DCMC Section 9-5-060(E)(1).



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Larson Zoning Map Amendment , as requested by Mark Larson, for
application TEXTMAP-0111-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated August 18, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Larson Zoning Map Amendment , as requested by Mark Larson,
for application TEXTMAP-0111-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated August 18, 2021 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Larson Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Mark Larson for
application TEXTMAP-0111-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
August 18, 2021.




Larson Zone Change                                            App. # TEXTMAP-0111-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  4
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No Comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including but not
      limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm
      water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;

       Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended
       to serve this property.

           a. The increase in density from one residential unit per acre zoning to approximately
              two units per acre constitutes a minor increase in the amount of traffic to and from
              the subject area. One single family residential structure and associated
              agricultural uses constitutes up to nine daily trips and two peak hour trips, based
              on industry standard vehicle trip tables. Typically, in the RA2 zone, residential
              density is approximately doubled. However, with the small acreage of this rezone,
              an existing home exists on the lot and no additional traffic is projected. The
              fronting street is Fort Street.

           b. Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on Fort Street.
              Access locations will be required to meet Draper City Standards as outlined in our
              Master Transportation Plan.

           c. There are not existing storm drainage facilities available to the subject area.
              Provisions for onsite storm drainage will need to be addressed with any
              subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply with the provisions of the
              development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.

           d. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
              subdivision application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District
              that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
           e. Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision application
              will require a commitment to serve from the WaterPro that facilities are adequate
              to provide service for the proposed uses.

           Accordingly, we will provide comments relative to the potential construction activities
           when the appropriate application is received. Thank you for the opportunity to review
           the Zone Amendment Request.


Fire Division Review.

   1. No Comments.
    EXHIBIT B
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
