                                  Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, UT 84020
                                        September 29, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: October 14, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Auto Nation– Site Plan Request
        Application No.: SPR-0069-2021
        Applicant:        Chris Bick, representing Kimley-Horn, Salt Lake ANUSA, LLC, and
                          Utah Power and Light Company (Rocky Mountain Power)
        Project Location: 11601 S. Lone Peak Parkway
        Current Zoning: KMAC-CSD (Karl Malone Auto Center Commercial Special District
                          Zone)
        Acreage:          6.1 Acres (Approximately 265,503 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Site Plan in the KMAC-CSD zone
                          regarding construction of a car dealership for buying, selling and
                          servicing new and used cars.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 6.1 acres located
on the east side of Lone Peak Parkway, at approximately 11601 S Lone Peak Parkway
(Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned KMAC-CSD. The applicant is requesting that a
Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as a car
dealership for buying, selling, and servicing new and used cars.

The main property is comprised of two (2) parcels owned by Salt Lake ANUSA, LLC that are
currently vacant and are located east of the overhead high voltage power lines along Lone
Peak Parkway, and a third parcel owned by Utah Power and Light, on which the overhead
power lines are located. The KMAC-CSD zone was approved October 4, 2011 and the



Auto Nation                                                          App. # SPR-0069-2021
Site Plan«Request_Type» Request                 1
subject area, inclusive of the power company property was included in the KMAC-CSD as a
future phase per the chapter exhibits.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Commercial
Special District land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




Auto Nation                                                           App. # SPR-0069-2021
Site Plan«Request_Type» Request                2
The property has been assigned the KMAC-CSD zoning classification, supporting the sale of
new and used vehicles, auto repair, collision repair, auto rental and sales of auto related
products and services (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section
9-8-020 the purpose of the CSD zones is to “permit a compatible, master planned mix of day
and evening uses consisting of office, light manufacturing, retail, residential, recreation and open
space components. Although development size and use mix will vary from location to location,
each development is intended to consist of well designed, architecturally integrated structures
which are appropriately landscaped and buffered from surrounding land uses.” The KMAC-CSD
zoning abuts the subject property on the north and northeast, and CBP (Business /
Manufacturing Park) zoning abuts on the southeast and the south. Directly across Lone
Peak Parkway to the west the property is zoned CR (Regional Commercial) and the 11400
LPP-CSD (11400 South Lone Peak Parkway Commercial Special District) zone is found to the
northwest of the subject property.

Site Plan Layout.
The property consist of three parcels, two (2) owned by Salt Lake ANUSA, LLC and the third
parcel by Utah Power and Light Company (Rocky Mountain Power) (Exhibit E). The power
company parcel has an existing easement recorded over it for the benefit of the other two
(2) parcels that allows for use of that property as access, landscaping, parking, and display
area for the proposed dealership. The proposed dealership building is located on the
property owned by Salt Lake ANUSA, LLC towards the center of the property within the
northeast quadrant of the site.

Circulation.
The proposed access from Lone Peak Parkway would be roughly central to the parcel with
frontage on the street and the central access drive would run east-west and connect to an
internal access drive running north-south that would connect to the Karl Malone Toyota
dealership property on the north and provide potential future cross access as required by
the KMAC-CSD zone.

Internal vehicular circulation is controlled in part by gates that help differentiate between
the customer parking area near the front of the dealership, the display areas to the south
and west of the dealership building, and the service areas located to the north and behind
the dealership building. The site provides pedestrian access across a walkway located on
the north side of the main vehicular access drive.

Stacking lanes have been provided in front of the service bay entrances in compliance with
requirements for such in the DCMC.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage.
The landscaping plans (Exhibit G) comply with the requirements of DCMC Section 9-18D-
070. The plan incorporates a variety of water efficient landscape materials and plants.
Landscape areas account for approximately 35% of the property area, well in excess of



Auto Nation                                                              App. # SPR-0069-2021
Site Plan«Request_Type» Request                  3
minimums. For every one-thousand square feet (1,000 ft²) of landscape area within the
parking area, a minimum of one (1) tree is required. There are 46 trees within the parking
area providing nearly two and one-half (2-1/2) times the minimum number of trees
necessary for the approximately nineteen-thousand three-hundred square feet (19,300 ft²)
of landscaping within the parking areas.

Building site coverage is approximately 7.5% which is well below the maximum 40%
allowed by the DCMC.

Parking.
According to the site plan (Exhibit E), there will be 50 parking spaces for customers and
employees and 354 parking spaces for inventory. Parking spaces for the dealership will
meet the requirements of the KMAC-CSD zone which requires the parking area to be
equivalent to or greater in size than the public showroom and display area. Per DCMC
Section 9-18D-060(G) the available parking spaces may be used for customers, employees,
inventory, or service bays. Allocation of spaces is at the discretion of the owner and
operator of the site. One van accessible and two (2) regular ADA parking stalls are also
provided near the entrance to the building.

Architecture.
The architectural plans (Exhibit F) and elevation drawings (Exhibit H) show the construction
of the dealership building as a single story building approximately 19,969 ft² in size and 22
feet tall. The maximum building height allowed in the KMAC-CSD zone is fifty-five feet (55’).
The principal building will be constructed primarily of CMU block with portions painted
white or medium grey with medium grey and pink accents. The proposed paint colors are
consistent with the dealerships national corporate identity branding. A significant portion
of the lower half (1/2) of the western (front) façade will consist of pedestrian level
aluminum framed fenestration, as will a smaller portion of the southern façade. A metal
parapet wall on the roof will screen mechanical and HVAC equipment from view. The
proposed building has a similar architectural theme to the adjacent Karl Malone Toyota
dealership buildings as they are also primarily single level car dealership style buildings
also constructed with extensive use of CMU Block.

Lighting.
The site lighting plans (Exhibit I) for business hours and after hours have been reviewed by
staff and have been found to conform to the requirements of DCMC Chapter 9-20. There
are some minor discrepancies between the architectural site plan and the lighting plans
regarding light pole location. Staff recommendation of approval for the Site Plan
conditioned upon compliance with the lighting locations as shown on the lighting plans.

The applicant has also not identified color for the light poles on the site as requested by
staff. Staff recommendation of approval for the Site Plan is conditioned upon painting the
poles the required black color as stated in Section 9-20-040(K)(2) of the DCMC.



Auto Nation                                                          App. # SPR-0069-2021
Site Plan«Request_Type» Request               4
The applicant’s response letter to staff provided with the most recent plan review included
a statement that updated cut sheets for the lighting had been revised, but no revised
sheets were included in the submittal. Staff recommends approval of the Site Plan
application on condition that revised lighting details (cut sheets) for ordinance compliant
lighting are provided to planning staff for review and approval prior to the final approval
letter for the Site Plan application being issued by staff.

Fencing.
New fencing has not been proposed for the site, there is an existing concrete wall along a
portion of the eastern side of the property and existing chain link fence along the adjacent
CBP commercially zoned property on the east and the south. Chain link fencing is
prohibited for the subject property, except as specifically prescribed by the requirements
of the KMAC-CSD zone, however the adjacent properties with the existing chain link fencing
adjacent to this property are located in a different zone.

A gate is proposed across the northern access between the subject property and the Karl
Malone Toyota property as a security measure until such time that the undeveloped
portion of the Karl Malone Toyota property is developed and the cross access aisle
extended to this property as required by the zone. The applicant’s submittal failed to
provide a paint color for the automotive gates and gate materials on the property as
requested. Staff recommends that any approval for the Site Plan include a condition that
they be painted the same color of white as the building. All gates will also be required to
comply with the requirements of the Fire Marshal for emergency access.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request is found in Sections 9-5-
090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a
            site plan:
            1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development
               plan is approved.
            2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including
               but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
               landscaping, and building materials.
            3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
               general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
            4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the
               subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
            5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards
               found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water
               drainage, and utilities concerns.




Auto Nation                                                              App. # SPR-0069-2021
Site Plan«Request_Type» Request                  5
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan submission. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, in working with the
Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, has completed their reviews of the
geotechnical and geologic hazards report submitted as a part of the Site Plan. Comments
from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning
Commission review the request, receive public comment, and approve the application
based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval as listed within the staff
report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                 site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.

        2.       That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
                 development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.




Auto Nation                                                           App. # SPR-0069-2021
Site Plan«Request_Type» Request                 6
        3.       That the site lighting be installed in compliance with the locations as shown
                 on the lighting plans.

        4.       That light poles on site be painted black.

        5.       That all site lighting comply with the requirements of the DCMC and that
                 current lighting details (cut sheets) for site lighting are provided to planning
                 staff for verification of this compliance prior to the final approval letter for
                 the Site Plan application being issued by staff.

        6.       All gates shall be painted the same color of white as the building, and shall
                 comply with all requirements of the Fire Marshal for emergency access.

        7.       That revised grading and drainage plans and drainage reports with corrected
                 calculations and details be provided to the City Engineer for review at the
                 time of the land disturbance permit in accordance with the Engineering and
                 Public Works Division comments provided in the staff report.

        8.       That the address of the dealership building be 11601 S. Lone Peak Pkwy. in
                 compliance with GIS/ Addressing review comments provided in the staff
                 report


The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.       The existing and proposed development of the entire site has been
                 addressed with the site plan amendment.

        2.       The site plan together with the listed conditions conforms or will conform to
                 applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to,
                 building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                 materials.

        3.       The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
                 the general plan and the purpose of the KMAC-CSD zoning district.

        4.       Public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                 development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.

        5.       The proposed development plans comply or will comply with the engineering
                 standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic,
                 storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.


The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title,
                 including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,



Auto Nation                                                               App. # SPR-0069-2021
Site Plan«Request_Type» Request                   7
                 parking, landscaping, and building materials.

        2.       The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and
                 objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the KMAC-CSD zoning
                 district.

        3.       Public facilities and services in the area are do not adequately support the
                 subject development, as required by engineering standards and
                 specifications.

        4.       The proposed development plans do not comply with all required
                 engineering standards as found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested by Chris
Bick, representing Kimley-Horn, Salt Lake ANUSA LLC, and Utah Power and Light, for the
Auto Nation dealership, application SPR-0069-2021, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 29, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested
by Chris Bick, representing Kimley-Horn, Salt Lake ANUSA LLC, and Utah Power and Light,
for the Auto Nation dealership, application SPR-0069-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 29, 2021and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1.       List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan, as requested by Chris Bick,
representing Kimley-Horn, Salt Lake ANUSA LLC, and Utah Power and Light, for the Auto
Nation dealership, application SPR-0069-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 29, 2021.




Auto Nation                                                             App. # SPR-0069-2021
Site Plan«Request_Type» Request                  8
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       CONDITIONALLY MEETS REQUIREMENTS

       General

       1.     Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required
              prior to construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the
              Engineering Division and is required prior to Building Permit issuance.
              Informational comment. No action required at this time.

       2.     Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit
              obtained through the Engineering Division. Informational comment. No
              action required at this time.

       Grading and Drainage

       1.     Orifice calculations are shown in report. There is no orifice plate used on
              plan. Remove calculation from report.

       2.     Sheet 6.1: Have Detention Calculations note to refer the Drainage Report for
              the calculations.

       3.     The Drainage Report does not state the same provided West Retention pond
              volume and WSE as what the grading/drainage plan show. May also need to
              update the mentioned volume and WSE shown on the Drainage Area Map

       4.     Recommendation: Reread the drainage report to verify all numbers
              mentioned match the numbers shown on grading/drainage plans and the
              Drainage Area Map.

       Utilities and Street

       1.     Per DCMC 9-27-080, there cannot be any objects greater than three feet tall
              in the 30’ by 30’ Clear View Triangle. A separate sign permit is required for
               the monument sign shown on Site Signage Plan. Informational comment. No
               action required at this time.



Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.



Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.



Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
               twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of
               thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be designed
               and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The
               surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
               have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a
               maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits
               being issued.

       2.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary
               Fire Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the
               Fire Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time
               during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department
               Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.

       3.      Hydrants Required. There shall be 2 hydrants required spaced at 450ft.
               increments, 40 feet minimum distance out from the building. Hydrants are to
               be protected with bollards if susceptible to vehicle damage. The required fire
               flow for this project is 3750GPM for full 3 hour duration. Fire Sprinklers
               reduce fire flow by 50% to 1875gpm for a 2 hour duration, the hydrants have
               already been reduced.

       4.      No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation
               and testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
               combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.

       5.      Fire Department Connection Location. The FDC shall be on the street side of
               the building and shall be located and arranged so that hose lines can be
               readily and conveniently attached to the inlets without interference from any
               nearby objects including but not limited to buildings, fences, posts, and
      landscaping.

6.    Post Indicator Valve with Tamper Required. If there is no designated fire riser
      room with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall
      mounted P.I.V (OS&Y) or a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet
      from the building with a tamper switch.

7.    Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler
      shop drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
      don.buckley@draperutah.gov . A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
      cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET
      level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-
      in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL
      FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE
      SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

8.    Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to
      be sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at
      don.buckley@draperutah.gov . A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
      cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level
      III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd
      PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

9.    2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
      serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to
      be located in a conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and
      immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or
      not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not
      more than five (5) feet above the floor.

10.   Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted
      to exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
      exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the
      top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General
      Contractor. See attached information form.

11.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
      address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
      property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.

12.   Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building
      permits being, issued. All lots to have lot number or address posted and
      legible.

13.   Permits. The Draper City Fire Department must sign off on some of the items
      listed above prior to any building permits being issued. If at any time during
              the building phase any of the above listed items becomes non-compliant any
              and all permits could be suspended or fine issued.

       14.    Hazardous Material Permit – A Draper City Fire Hazardous Material Permit
              may need to be obtained. This is for all new and existing installations.



GIS/ Addressing Review.

       1.     The proposed building must be addressed off of Lone Peak Pkwy.

              a.     Assigned address: 11601 S Lone Peak Pkwy.

              b.     The city will submit an affidavit to Salt Lake County to change the
                     property address.

       2.     The proposed building must be labeled with the assigned address.

              a.     Label the proposed building with the assigned address on the site
                     plan and resubmit.

       3.     The site plan must have Lone Peak Pkwy labeled.

              a.     Label street name.

              b.     Label street coordinate.

              c.     Label as a public street.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GENERAL NOTES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONSTRUCTION NOTES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SLOPE TO FRONT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               111 East Broadway, Suite 600 | Salt Lake City, UT 84111 | Tel. No. (385) 212-3176
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SITE INFORMATION
                                                                                           This document, together with the concepts and designs presented herein, as an instrument of service, is intended only for the specific purpose and client for which it was prepared. Reuse of and improper reliance of this document without written authorization by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. shall be without liability to Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SITE KEYNOTE PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AUTO NATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9/3/2021


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9/3/2021


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9/3/2021


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AS SHOWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE:
                      K:\SLC_CIVIL\068682903 AUTONATION - DRAPER\CADD\PLAN SHEETS\HC.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AMB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CPB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AJB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           068682903
BELCASTRO, ANDREW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESIGNED BY:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHECKED BY:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT No.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH
User:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OFESS IO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PR        N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G I STER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENGI NEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST    9/3/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AT           H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E OF UTA
  9/3/2021 10:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR ELEVATION OF EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLANS IS BASED ON RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AND, WHERE POSSIBLE, MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE LOCAL UTILITY LOCATION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C5.0
Date:
                      Path:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO REQUEST EXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UTILITIES WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                             GENERAL NOTES




COM
                             LEGEND




            SLOPE TO FRONT




                             SITE INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             111 East Broadway, Suite 600 | Salt Lake City, UT 84111 | Tel. No. (385) 212-3176
      VAN




                                                                                                                                                     DIMENSION CONTROL PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUTO NATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER, UT
                                                                                                                                                9/3/2021


                                                                                                                                                                                   9/3/2021


                                                                                                                                                                                                              9/3/2021


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AS SHOWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                AMB




                                                                                                                                                                                                              CPB
                                                                                                                                                                                   AJB
                                                                                                                                                                    DESIGNED BY:


                                                                                                                                                                                              CHECKED BY:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT No.:
                                                                                                                                    DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                     SEAL
                                                                           NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                OFESS IO
                                                                                                                                                                              PR        N




                                                                                                                                                          ED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AL
                                                                                                                                                  G I STER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ENGI NEER
                                                                                                                                                RE
                                                                                                                                                              ST    9/3/2021
                                                                                                                                                                AT           H
                                                                                                                                                                   E OF UTA

                                        CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR

                                        THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR ELEVATION OF EXISTING
                                        UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLANS IS BASED ON RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES
                                        AND, WHERE POSSIBLE, MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED
                                                                                                                                                                                   SHEET
                                        ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE LOCAL UTILITY LOCATION
                                        CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO REQUEST EXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE
                                        UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE ALL EXISTING
                                        UTILITIES WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                         C5.1
      EXHIBIT F
ARCHITECTURAL PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Revision                                  Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Number         Revision Description         Date

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1       Site Plan Review               063031
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2       Site Plan Review               080621
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3       Site Plan Review               083121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Comments




                                                                                                                                                               10'-6"                                           7'-10"                                      7'-10"                          7'-10"                                                  10'-6"                                                                                                              17'-0"                                                                         17'-0"                                 17'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16                         3 A1.06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A1.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                             7'-10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THESE DOCUMENTS HAVE BEEN PREPARED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SPLIT FACE CONCRETE                                                                                 SPECIFICALLY FOR THE FOLLOWING PROJECT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A2.11                                                     DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE WALL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SLIDING CANTILEVERED GATE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAINT TO MATCH BUILDING                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RE: 1/A1.06.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   [EP-1 WHITE]. RE: 16/A1.05.                                                                                   AutoNation - USA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A1.06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SLIDING CANTILEVERED GATE.                                                         METAL PANEL GATES.                                                                                     11601 S Lone Peak Pkwy,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RE: 1/A1.06.                                                                       RE: 19, 21 & 23/A1.05.                                                                                    Draper, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THEY ARE NOT SUITABLE FOR USE ON OTHER
                                                                                                  10'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECTS OR IN OTHER LOCATIONS WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7'-10"                                          7'-10"                                               7'-10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   APPROVAL AND PARTICIPATION OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THEARCHITECT. REPRODUCTION IS PROHIBITED.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COPYRIGHT 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                              7'-10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CASTLES DESIGN GROUP, P.C.



                                                                                                           7'-10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7'-10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                       7'-10"
                                                                                                                    7'-10"
                                                                                                                                                                      OVERHEAD
                                                                                                                                                                      UTILITY POLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7'-10"



                                                                                                                                                 7'-10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A2.11   8                                                                                                                                                                                                    7 A2.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7'-10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7'-10"


                                                                                               ELEC
                                                                                               XFRMR                          7'-10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7'-10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7'-10"
                                                                                                                                                     MONUMENT SIGN                                                                                                                                                 7'-10"
                                                                                                                                                     33.25 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11601 S Lone Peak Pkwy,
                                                                                                                                       10'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Draper, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7'-10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7'-10"                                       7'-10"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7'-10"

                                                                                                                                                                        7'-10"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7'-10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7'-10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7'-10"                                         7'-10"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A2.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10'-6"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SLIDING CANTILEVERED GATE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RE: 1/A1.06.


                                                                                                                                                                            7'-10"                         7'-10"                                  7'-10"                         7'-10"                                              7'-10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DIRECTIONAL SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                     7'-10"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7'-10"                               7'-10"                         7'-10"                                              7'-10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20'-0"                                 20'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7'-10"




                                                                                                                                                     7'-10"




                                                                                                                                                10'-6"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7'-10"                                   7'-10"                                                   7'-10"                                              7'-10"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7'-10"                                     7'-10"                   7'-10"              7'-10"                            7'-10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Castle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Group
                                                                                                                                                          7'-10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A Professional Architectural
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Corporation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3801 Kirby Drive, Suite 600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Houston, Texas 77098
                                                                                                                                                                   7'-10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20'-0"                                                                               20'-0"                                 20'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7'-10"                                         7'-10"                                                  7'-10"                                           7'-10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tel: (713) 664-7974
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Fax: (713) 664-9756



GENERAL NOTES - SITE PLANS:
1. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING CONDITIONS PRIOR TO COMMENCING THIS WORK. IN
   CASE OF ANY DISCREPANCIES, THE ARCHITECT SHALL BE NOTIFIED IMMEDIATELY AND WORK SHALL NOT                                                                                10'-6"
   COMMENCE WITHOUT APPROVAL FROM THE ARCHITECT.

2. WRITTEN DIMENSIONS OF DRAWINGS SHALL HAVE PRECEDENCE OVER SCALED DIMENSIONS. THE GENERAL
   CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY AND BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL DIMENSIONS AND CONDITIONS AT THE BUILDING
   SITE, AND REPORT ANY DISCREPANCIES TO THE ARCHITECT PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH THE WORK.

3. LIGHT LEVELS SHALL N OT EXCEED THE MAXIMUM AVERAGE ILLUMINATION AMOUNT ALLOWED BY ORDINANCE.
   RE: DCMC SECTION 9-20-070.

4. MAXIMUM POLE HEIGHT IS 20'. ALL POLES MUST BE BLACK. RE: DCMC SECTION 9-20-141(F)(7) AND DCMC SECTION
   9-20-100(E).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10'-6"                                                 7'-10"                                              7'-10"                                    7'-10"                 7'-10"                          7'-10"                                          10'-6"                                                                                                                                                                Issued: 9/2/2021 - Expires: 12/31/2022
5. ENTIRE SITE IS LIMITED TO 27 PRIMARY LIGHT POLES. RE: DCMC SECTION 9-20-040(G).

6. LIGHT POLE SPACING SHALL BE SPACED SUCH THAT THERE IS NO OVERLAP IN AREAS OF DIRECT LIGHTING. RE:
   DCMC 9-20-040(H).

7. GC AND LIGHTING CONTRACTOR TO ENSURE SITE LIGHTING FIXTURE HEADS HAVE THE CORRECT ORIENTATION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Site Plan
   REFER TO PHOTOMETRIC DRAWINGS FOR HEAD PLACEMENT.

8. GC TO COORDINATE SITE SECURITY LAYOUT AND CONDUIT SIZE & LOCATION WITH THE OWNER.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2      1

9. GC TO ENSURE PAVING AT ALL EXITS SHALL NOT EXCEED A 2% MAX SLOPE IN ALL DIRECTIONS.

10. PAVING SHALL BE LOWER THAN THE BUILDING SLAB BY THE FOLLOWING AMOUNTS UNO:
  • 1/2" @ ALL EXIT DOORS
  • 1/2" @ ALL SHOWROOM GLAZING LOCATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORTH
  • 1 1/2" @ OVERHEAD DOORS
  • 1 1/2" @PRE-FAB METAL WALL PANELS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A1.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Date:                                4/21/2021

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Project No:                         202008-317
                                                       Site
                                                  1
                                                       1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4" CONC. SIDEWALK REINF.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W/ 6 X 6 X #6 W.W.M.                                                                                                                                                                      REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                     3/4" CHAMFER CONT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3/4" REDWOOD EXP. JOINT                                                                                                                                                  Revision                                  Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (TOOL JOINT EDGES)                                                                                                                                                       Number         Revision Description         Date
                                                                                                                                                                     EACH SIDE                                                                                                                                                                        4" CONC. SIDEWALK REINF.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6" X 6" X 6'-0" CONC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W/ 6 X 6 X #6 W.W.M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WHEEL STOPS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KEYLODE DOWEL BAR W/                                                                                                                                                        3       Site Plan Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  083121
                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE PAVING.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STATIONARY WING PLATE @ 18" O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1/8" THK. x 3/4" DEEP
                                                                                                                                                                     RE: CIVIL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (WAXED-TUBE ONE END)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3/4"® X 18" LONG                                                                                                      SAWCUT JOINT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DOWELS EACH END
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2" THICK SAND LEVELING BED.                                                                                                        SIGN PER CITY AND STATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CODES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2" THICK SAND LEVELING BED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STABILIZED & COMPACTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBGRADE (RE: SOIL REPORT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STABILIZED & COMPACTED                                                                                                                                                                                                            RESERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIDE WALK CONDITION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SUBGRADE (RE: SOIL REPORT)                                                                                                                                                                                    PARKING                FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STABILIZED & COMPACTED                                 SIDE WALK CONDITION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBGRADE (RE: SOIL REPORT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4" CONC. SIDEWALK REINF.                                                              ONLY              HANDICAPPED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W/ 6 X 6 X #6 W.W.M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4" CONC. SIDEWALK REINF.                                                                                                 3/4" REDWOOD EXP. JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W/ 6 X 6 X #6 W.W.M.                                                                                                     (TOOL JOINT EDGES)                                                                 VAN
                                                                                                                                            20
                                                                                                                                                 Wheel Stop Detail1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1/8" THK. x 3/4" DEEP                                                                                                    KEYLODE DOWEL BAR W/ STATIONARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ACCESSIBLE                                        60"
                                                                                                                                                 3/4" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                         SAWCUT JOINT.                                                                                                            WING PLATE @ 18" O.C.                                                                                                   ABOVE GRADE                                        THESE DOCUMENTS HAVE BEEN PREPARED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SPECIFICALLY FOR THE FOLLOWING PROJECT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (WAXED-TUBE ONE END)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 1/2" DIA. GALV. STEEL PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SET IN 12" DIA. CONCRETE                         AutoNation - USA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PIER 24" DEEP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1/2"x1/2" STEEL BAR STOCK BACKER BETWEEN                                                                                            STABILIZED & COMPACTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11601 S Lone Peak Pkwy,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ANGLE GATE FRAME ON OUTSIDE OF ENCLOSURE                                                                                            SUBGRADE (RE: SOIL REPORT)                                                                                               STABILIZED & COMPACTED                                                                   A                        B                                                             Draper, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2 EACH GATE).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBGRADE (RE: SOIL REPORT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THEY ARE NOT SUITABLE FOR USE ON OTHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PAVEMENT CONDITION                                                                                                                          PAVEMENT CONDITION                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECTS OR IN OTHER LOCATIONS WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1-1/2" - 22 GAUGE PRE-FINISHED "A"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          APPROVAL AND PARTICIPATION OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PANEL WELDED TO FRAME.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THEARCHITECT. REPRODUCTION IS PROHIBITED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Joint Detail - Control Joint1                                                                                                     Joint Detail - Expansion Joint1                                                                                       Accessible Signs Detail1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L3 x 2 1/2 x1/2" ANGLE FRAME - WELD AND GRIND       15                                                                                                                               10                                                                                                                      5                                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3/4" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                      3/4" = 1'-0"                                                                                                          3/4" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALL JOINTS SMOOTH, PAINT. TYPICAL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CASTLES DESIGN GROUP, P.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1/2" DIA. X 2" HEADED STUD WELDED TO GATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FRAME (OFFSET TO REST TOP OF CANE BOLT)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TS 2"x2" X 3/16" W 3/4" HOLE TO RECEIVE CANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOLT; FILLET WELD ALL SIDES TO GATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3/4" RUBBER, NEOPRENE OR REDWOOD EXP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JT. W/ WRECK-OUT STRIP. FILL W/ SONALASTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5/8" DIA. CANE BOLT; FIELD WELD "STOP" TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEALANT. (TYPICAL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PREVENT CANE FROM BEING REMOVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALL CONCRETE RAMPS TO HAVE SCORED FINISH AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TS 2"x2" X 3/16" x 12" W/ 1/4" PLATE EACH END.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONTRASTING COLOR - TYPICAL FOR ENTIRE PROJECT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20'-0" TYP.
                                                                                                   NOTE:                                                                                                          DRILL HOLES IN CAP TO ALLOW FREE BOLT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5'-0" TYP.                                                                                  SLOPE OF SIDE @ FLARED RAMP CONDITION
                                                                                                   RE 2/A1.06 FOR FULL ELEVATION OF                                                                               MOVEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                  6" CURB                                                                                                                KEYLODE DOWEL BARS @ 18" O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PAVEMENT                                                                                                                                SHALL NOT EXCEED 1:10.
                                                                                                   DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE & GATES.




                                                                                                                                                                                                          2'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONCRETE SIDEWALK.                                                RE: ENLARGED PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1" DIA. x 8" LONG BOLT AT BOTTOM OF CANE                                                                                                                                                  EXPANSION JOINT                                                                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                   NOTE:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONTROL JOINT                                                                                                              FIN CONCRETE WALK
                                                                                                   ALL DUMPSTER COMPONENTS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRILL 1 1/2" DIA. STRIKE HOLE IN PAVING TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RE: CIVIL
                                                                                                   INCLUDING WALLS, GATES &                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RECEIVE LOWER CANE BOLT
                                                                                                   HARDWARE SHALL BE PAINTED TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10 / A1.05                                                       15 / A1.05
                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                   MATCH THE BUILDING [EP-1 WHITE].                                                                               1/4" PLATE 4"x12" WITH RECEPTION HOLES FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CANE BOLT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LANDSCAPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                          6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMPACTED FILL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1/4" STEEL PLATE, WELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AND GRIND SMOOTH.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :                      NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2-5/8"x4" QUIK BOLTS EACH END OF PLATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REFER TO CIVIL FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1. THICKNESS & REINFORCING OF ALL PAVING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2. DEPTH & WIDTH OF FOOTINGS @ SIDEWALK EDGE.

                                                                                                                                                 Dumpster - Gate Cane Bar1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Joint Detail - Layout - Sidewalk1                                                                                     Accessible Curb Ramp with Flares1
                                                                                                                                            19                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6" DIAMETER STEEL PIPE. FILL         9                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                 1" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                        WITH CONCRETE. PAINT EP-3                 1" = 1'-0"                                                                                                            3/4" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11601 S Lone Peak Pkwy,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOTE:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A1.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALL DUMPSTER COMPONENTS,                                                                                                                       CONCRETE PAVEMENT. RE: CIVIL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INCLUDING WALLS, GATES &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HARDWARE SHALL BE PAINTED TO                                                                                                                   CONCRETE ENCASEMENT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MATCH THE BUILDING [EP-1 WHITE].                                                                                                               CONCRETE PAVEMENT. RE: CIVIL.                                                                          CJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10
                  FACE OF BACK-UP PLATES TO                                                                                                                                                                       L3 x 2 1/2 x1/2" ANGLE FRAME - WELD AND GRIND                                                                                                                                                                             A1.05
                  BE FLUSH WITH FACE OF GATE                                                                                                                                                                      ALL JOINTS SMOOTH, PAINT. TYPICAL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EQ
                  FRAME.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EQ                                    EQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAND LEVELING BED.
                                                                    9"                                                             1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4" CONCRETE SIDEWALK REINFORCED WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6 X 6 X #6 W.W.M.
                  THROW BOLT GUIDES                                                  1 3/4"                          6"                1 3/4"                                          2"   1 1/2"   2"                                                                                                                                 4"
                  WITH 3/4" DIA. HOLES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1/2" X 1/2" TOOLED JOINT, CONTINUOUS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22" DIAMETER CONCRETE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THROW BOLT GUIDES WITH 3/4" DIA. HOLES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6"
                                                  1 1/8"


                                                               1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BASE.                                                                                                                 15                                                   2" RADIUS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXPANSION JOINTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A1.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STAGGER PATTERN                                                                                                  10                    CONCRETE PAVING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A1.05                  RE: CIVIL FOR REINFORCING AND
                                                               2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THICKNESS.
                  5/8" DIA. STEEL
                                                  5/8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6"
                  STROW BOLT.                                                                                                                                                                                     FACE OF BACK-UP PLATES TO BE FLUSH                                                                                                                                                                                                 E.J. PATTERN 40' - 0" EACH WAY OR AS SHOWN
                                             7"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WITH FACE OF GATE FRAME.
                                                                                                     3 1/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #4 BARS @ 12" O.C. VERT.
                                                                                                                                                5"
                                                  5 1/4"


                                                               4 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1/4" THICK STEEL BACK-UP PLATES. WELD
                  PADLOCK TONGUES                                                                                                                                                                                 BACK-UP PLATES TO FRAME AND DECK.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A1.05
                  WITH 1" DIA. HOLES.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #3 DOWELS @ 24" O.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6"
                                                                                                     1 1/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FABRICATE THROW BOLT GUIDES AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STABILIZED, LEVELED & COMPACTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PADLOCK TONGUES FROM 1/4" STEEL                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                1 3/4"        2"                          6 1/2"                     3"       1/2"    3"                    5 1/2"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUBGRADE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PLATE. WELD TO 1/4" BACK-UP PLATE.                                                                                         1'-10"                                                                                                  A1.05                                                                                    RE: CIVIL & GEOTECH REPORT.


     Dumpster - Slide Lock1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Protective Pipe Bollard1                                                                                                          Joint Detail - Layout - Paving1                                                                                       Curb @ Sidewalk1
23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13                                                                                                                                8                                                                                                                      3
     3" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3/4" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                      1" = 10'-0"                                                                                                           3/4" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUILDING EDGE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3/4" RUBBER, NEOPRENE, OR REDWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXPANSION JOINT W/ WRECK-OUT STRIP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FILL W/ SONALASTIC SEALANT. (TYPICAL)


               NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SIDEWALK. W/ 6 X 6 X #6 W.W.M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RE: CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Castle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Design
               ALL DUMPSTER COMPONENTS,



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s
               INCLUDING WALLS, GATES &
               HARDWARE SHALL BE PAINTED TO
                                                           3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOTE:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group
               MATCH THE BUILDING [EP-1 WHITE].                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SAND LEVELING BED.
                                                                         1" 1 1/2"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOP OF POLES INDICATED ON SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PLAN INCLUDE THE LIGHT POLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30" A.F.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PRE-CAST CONCRETE WALL CAP TO BE SECURED TO TOP                                                                                                  BASE.                                                                                                       COMPACTED FILL. RE: SOIL REPORT.
             L3 x 2 1/2 x1/2" ANGLE FRAME - WELD                                                                                                                                                                  OF MASONRY WALL. RE: STRUCTURAL.
             AND GRIND ALL JOINTS SMOOTH, PAINT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A Professional Architectural
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTINUOUS CMU BOND BEAM. RE: STRUCTURAL.
             TYPICAL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Corporation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3801 Kirby Drive, Suite 600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Houston, Texas 77098
             1-1/2" - 22 GAUGE PRE-FINISHED "A"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tel: (713) 664-7974
             PANEL WELDED TO FRAME.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Fax: (713) 664-9756
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8" SPLIT FACE CONCRETE BLOCK ENCLOSURE WALL WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EPOXY FINISH, TYICAL EACH SIDE. MATCH BUILDING.
             1/2"x1/2" STEEL BAR STOCK BACKER
             BETWEEN ANGLE GATE FRAME ON                                                                                                                                                                          HORIZONTAL 'DURO-WALL' TRUSS TYPE REINFORCEMENT                                                                                                  LIGHT POLE & BASE RE:                     Transition - Building to Sidewalk1
             OUTSIDE OF ENCLOSURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                      Re: Schedule




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AT 16" O.C. VERTICALLY. RE: STRUCTURAL.                                                                                                          ELEC. DWGS.                               3/4" = 1'-0"
             (2 EACH GATE).
                                                                                                                                                                              6'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12'-0" BELOW EXISTING GRADE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (4) 1" DIA ANCHOR BOLTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (VERIFY WITH SOIL REPORT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FINISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PVMT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  #4 BARS AT 16" O.C. VERTICAL, MASONRY CELLS TO BE                                                                                                40" LG. VERIFY W/ LIGHT POLE BASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FILLED WITH 2500 PSI CONCRETE. TYPICAL. RE:                                                                                                      FOR SETTING LOCATIONS CONC.                                NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STRUCTURAL.                                                                                                                                      BASE (3000 PSI)                                            SLOPE AT LANDING SHALL
             1-1/2" - 22 GAUGE PRE-FINISHED "A"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOT EXCEED 2% (1/4:12) IN
             PANEL WELDED TO FRAME.                                                                                                                                                                               NOTE:                                                                                                                                                                                                       ANY DIRECTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALL DUMPSTER COMPONENTS,                                                                                                                         ELEC. CONDUIT REF: ELEC.                                   3/4" REDWOOD EXPANSION JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INCLUDING WALLS, GATES &                                                                                                                         DWGS FOR CONTINUATIONS                                     WITH WRECK-OUT STRIP. FILL                                                                                     CONCRETE CURB WITH #3 BARS
             L3 x 2 1/2 x1/2" ANGLE FRAME - WELD                                                                                                                                                                  HARDWARE SHALL BE PAINTED TO              3                                                                                                                                                                 WITH SONALASTIC SEALANT.                                                                                       CONTINUOUS TOP & BOTTOM.
             AND GRIND ALL JOINTS SMOOTH, PAINT.                                                                                                                                                                  MATCH THE BUILDING [EP-1 WHITE].                                                                                                                 (4) #6 VERT. REINF. W/ #3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Issued: 9/2/2021 - Expires: 12/31/2022
             TYPICAL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TAPER CONCRETE TO CREATE                                                                                                                                                 6"         NOTE: PROVIDE WEEPS IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STIRRUPS @12" O.C. (HOOK ENDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12")                                                       LEVEL LANDING AS REQUIRED.                                                                                     2" RADIUS.                                                           CURBS AT LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTINUOUS CONCRETE CURB AT CMU WALL.                                                                                                                                                                       RE: SITE & FLOOR PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                              7 1/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FINISH FLOOR.                                                                                         BEDS AT 10'-0" O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONCRETE PAVING.                                                     MAXIMUM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RE: CIVIL FOR REINFORCING AND
             STEEL TUBE POST BEYOND, PAINT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THICKNESS.                                                                                                            Site Details
                                                                                                      6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FINISH GRADE. RE: CIVIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24" DIA.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REINFORCED CONCRETE SLAB GRADE BEAM. RE:                                                                                                                                                                    NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STRUCTURAL.                                                                                                                                                                                                 ADA / TAS COMPLIANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THRESHOLD REQUIRED.                                                                                            #3 DOWELS @ 24" O.C.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STABILIZED, LEVELED & COMPACTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUBGRADE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RE: CIVIL & GEOTECH REPORT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A1.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Date:                                4/21/2021
   Dumpster - Gate Detail1                                                                                                                     Dumpster - Wall1                                                                                                          Light Pole Base1                                                                                                                 Level Landing @ Doors1                                                                                                 Curb @ 6" Curb at Landscaping1
21                                                                                                                                          16                                                                                                                        11                                                                                                                                6                                                                                                                      1
   3" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                  3/4" = 1'-0"                                                                                                              3/4" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                     1" = 1'-0"                                                                                                             3/4" = 1'-0"                                                                                                             Project No:                         202008-317
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Revision                                  Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Number         Revision Description         Date

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3       Site Plan Review               083121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Comments




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THESE DOCUMENTS HAVE BEEN PREPARED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SPECIFICALLY FOR THE FOLLOWING PROJECT:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AutoNation - USA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11601 S Lone Peak Pkwy,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Draper, UT 84020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THEY ARE NOT SUITABLE FOR USE ON OTHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECTS OR IN OTHER LOCATIONS WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         APPROVAL AND PARTICIPATION OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THEARCHITECT. REPRODUCTION IS PROHIBITED.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COPYRIGHT 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CASTLES DESIGN GROUP, P.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11601 S Lone Peak Pkwy,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Draper, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9"                          14'-0"
                                                                                                                                                             PRECAST CONCRETE WALL CAP TO BE SECURED TO
                                                                                                                                                             TOP OF MASONRY WALL. RE: STRUCTURAL.



                                                                                                                                                             TS 6x6x1/4" WITH CAP PLATE. SET MINIMUM 36"
                                                                                                                                                             INTO 24" ⌀ CONCRETE PIER. PAINT.

                                                                                                                                                             8" SPLIT FACE CONCRETE BLOCK ENCLOSURE WALL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6'-0"
                                                                                                                                                             PAINT TO MATCH BUILDING.



                                                                                                                                                             LINE OF CONTINUOUS CONCRETE CURB AT CMU
                                                                                                                                                             ENCLOSURE WALLS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8"
                                                                                                                                                          Dumpster Enclosure East
                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                          1/4" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                          PRECAST CONCRETE WALL CAP TO BE                                                                                                            1/2"x1/2" BAR STOCK
                                                                                                                                                          SECURED TO TOP OF MASONRY WALL. RE:                          2'-0"             6'-11"            6'-11"            2'-0"                   BACKER BETWEEN ANGLE GATE
                                                                                                                                                          STRUCTURAL.                                                                              1"                                                FRAME ON OUTSIDE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENCLOSURE (2 EACH GATE)
                                                                                                                                                          8" SPLIT FACE CONCRETE BLOCK ENCLOSURE                                                                                                     7" BARREL TYPE SURFACE WELDED
                                                                                                                                                          WALL. PAINT TO MATCH BUILDING.                                                                                                             BALL BEARING HINGES W/ FORCED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LUBRICATION CAPABILITY (PAINT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6'-0"
                                                                                                                                                          DUMPSTER GATE WITH L3x2x1/4 ANGLE
                                                                                                                                                          FRAME - LONG LEG FACING IN; WELD                                                                                                           TS 6x6x1/4" WITH CAP PLATE. SET
                                                                                                                                                          AND GRID ALL JOINTS SMOOTH. PAINT.                                                                                                         MINIMUM 36" INTO 24" ⌀ CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                          1-1/2" - 22 GAUGE PANEL WELDED TO                                                                                                          PIER. PAINT.
                                                                                                                                                          FRAME. PAINT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                          LINE OF CONTINUOUS CONCRETE CURB AT CMU                                                                                                    GATE PANELS SHALL BE PRE-



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Castle
                                                                                                                                                          ENCLOSURE WALLS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FINISHED. PAINT ALL OTHER
                                                                                                                                                                                               CANE BOLTS MOUNTED TO OUTSIDE                                                                         EXPOSED SURFACES. CMU WALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                               OF ENCLOSURE                                                                                          TO MATCH BUILDING.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RE: 25/A1.05 FOR SLIDE LOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                               1 1/2" DIA. STRIKE HOLES IN PAVING                                                                    DETAIL.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                                                                                                               TO RECEIVE LOWERED CANE BOLT
                                                                                                                                                                                               (AS REQUIRED)



                                                                           Paint
                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                          Dumpster Enclosure - South
                                                                                                                                                          1/4" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Group
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A Professional Architectural
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Corporation
                                                      3" DIAMETER GALVANIZED STEEL
                                                      HAND PULL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3801 Kirby Drive, Suite 600
                                                                                                                                         NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Paint gate supports to                                                                                                                                   Houston, Texas 77098
                                                                                                 GALVANIZED STEEL SLIDING GATE                                                                      match building (EP-1                                                    3" DIAMETER GLAVANIZED STEEL PIPE
                                                                                                                                         ALL PAINTED COMPONENTS SHALL                                                                                                                                                                                         Tel: (713) 664-7974
                                                                                                 ROLLERS.                                                                                                                                                                   GATE FRAME (PAINT).
                                                                                                                                         MATCH THE BUILDING [EP-1 WHITE].                           White)                                                                                                                                                   Fax: (713) 664-9756
                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                 GALVANIZED STEEL PADLOCK HASP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Paint
                                                                    Paint                                                                                                                                                                                                   3" DIAMETER GLAVANIZED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STEEL GATE STOP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GALVANIZED STEEL POST CAP,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TACK-WELDED.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Paint

         4" DIAMETER GALVANIZED STEEL                                                              SLIDE
                                                                                                                 3'-6"


         PIPE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4" DIAMETER GALVANIZED STEEL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PIPE BOLLARD.
Paint
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Paint


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Issued: 9/2/2021 - Expires: 12/31/2022




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Site Details
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4'-6"
                                                NOTE:
                                                PROVIDE LATCH POST, PADLOCK HASP & HOLD OPEN AT
                                                SINGLE GATE APPLICATION. COMPLY WITH ALL                                                                                                                                                                                    12" DIAMETER CONCRETE
                                                REQUIREMENTS OF THE CITY OF DRAPER & THE FIRE                                                                                                                                                                               BASE.
                                                DEPARTMENT.

                                                GATE LENGTH & NUMBER OF SUPPORT POSTS VARY.                     3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A1.06
                                                REFER TO SITE PLAN AND VERIFY FIELD CONDITIONS.




                                        2'-0"                           DRIVEWAY WIDTH                                           2'-0"                    5'-0"                                                                  5'-0"                                                  5'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Date:                                4/21/2021
                                                                  RE: SITE PLAN. FIELD VERIFY.                                                          MAXIMUM                                                                MAXIMUM                                                MAXIMUM


        Single Cantilevered Gate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Project No:                         202008-317
    1
        3/4" = 1'-0"
   EXHIBIT G
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPERTY LINE FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROPERTY                                                     ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //   //   //        //        //     //    //   //     //   //   //     //   //    //    //    //   //   //   //   //   //         //   //   //   //   //   //

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLANT SCHEDULE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        //   //        //        //        //        //        //         //        //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         //                                               //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UO (1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1) UO                                                           (1) PL                                                                               CANOPY TREES       CODE   QTY         BOTANICAL NAME                        COMMON NAME                          CONT    CAL            SIZE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AC (4)                                                                          (1) QM                                                                                                                      QM (1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    QG (1)                                                                                                                                                                     (3) PA                                                  (3) MS                                                                                                                                                  (2) SD                                                          (22) JH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BC (6)                                                                                                                                                                    (35) EN                                                                                                        YH (8)                                                                                            (1) MS                                                                                                    (1) UO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SLOPE TO FRONT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (6) YH                                                                                                                                                     PA (1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SA (7)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AG     21          ACER GRANDIDENTATUM                   BIGTOOTH MAPLE                      B&B      2" CAL MIN     10` HT MIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (4) AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1) MS                                                                       EN (3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                (6) AC     UO (1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (4) SD                        JH (5)                                         JH (8)                                                                                                                (10) YH                                                                                         (2) AG                                                          QG     10          QUERCUS GAMBELII                      GAMBEL OAK                          B&B      2" CAL MIN     10` HT MIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (4) EN                                                                                         (3) EN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1) MS                                                                                         (7) YH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PA (2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           QM     6           QUERCUS MACROCARPA                    BURR OAK                            B&B      2" CAL MIN     10` HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (6) SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AC (8)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PA (1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UO     11          ULMUS DAVIDIANA `JFS KW2UD` TM        GREENSTONE ELM                      B&B      2" CAL MIN     12` HT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     METAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        YH (6)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EDGE (TYP.)         //


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (12) DP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD (4)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EVERGREEN TREES    CODE   QTY         BOTANICAL NAME                        COMMON NAME                          CONT    CAL            SIZE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MS (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JS (1)                                              JS     6           JUNIPERUS SCOPULORUM `SKYROCKET`      SKYROCKET JUNIPER                   B&B                     6` HT MIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JH (10)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AG (3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PF2 (28)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (4) PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 //

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (3) AC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PL     3           PINUS LONGAEVA                        BRISTLECONE PINE                    B&B                     6` HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      METAL                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1) PA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            111 East Broadway, Suite 600 | Salt Lake City, UT 84111 | Tel. No. (385) 212-3176
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EDGE (TYP.)                                                                                                                                                            (6) DP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3) EN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ORNAMENTAL TREES   CODE   QTY         BOTANICAL NAME                        COMMON NAME                          CONT    CAL            SIZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (5) JH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JS (2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MS     18          MALUS X `SPRING SNOW`                 SPRING SNOW CRABAPPLE               B&B      1.5" CAL MIN   8` HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PF2 (22)                                                                                                             /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD (7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1) AG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PA     24          PRUNUS CERASIFERA `ATROPURPUREA`      PURPLE-LEAF PLUM                    B&B      1.5" CAL MIN   8` HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (5) JH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EN (5)                                                                            (8) AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MS (1)                                                                                                                                                                                        (1) QG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PA (1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHRUBS             CODE   QTY         BOTANICAL NAME                        COMMON NAME                          CONT    SPACING        SIZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AG (1)                                                                                                                                                                                        (1) PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AC (6)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (11) AC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AC     72          ATRIPLEX CONFERTIFOLIA                SHADSCALE                            5 GAL   SEE PLAN       18" HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JH (7)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PL (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DP (13)                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2) SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1) MS                                                    JS (3)                          PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          QM (1)                          LINE                          BC     32          BERBERIS THUNBERGII `CRIMSON PYGMY`   CRIMSON PYGMY JAPANESE BARBERRY      5 GAL   SEE PLAN       18" HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (8) DP                             (3) YH                             (3) YH                              (3) YH                       (3) YH                    (8) SA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (5) JH                             (3) YH                             (3) YH                              (3) YH                       (3) YH                   (12) JH                                                                                                                                                                                                         EN     60          ERICAMERIA NAUSEOSA                   RUBBER RABBITBRUSH                   5 GAL   SEE PLAN       24" HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (11) BC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LONE P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (5) DP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (3) JH                                                         (2) PA                                                  AG (2)                                                                                        JH     100         JUNIPERUS HORIZONTALIS                CREEPING JUNIPER                     5 GAL   SEE PLAN       12" FULL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (5) AC                                                 PF2 (5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BC (12)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PF2    112         POTENTILLA FRUTICOSA                  SHRUBBY CINQUEFOIL                   5 GAL   SEE PLAN       18" HT MIN
                                                                                                          This document, together with the concepts and designs presented herein, as an instrument of service, is intended only for the specific purpose and client for which it was prepared. Reuse of and improper reliance of this document without written authorization by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. shall be without liability to Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YH (7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SA (12)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RG3    6           RIBES AUREUM                          GOLDEN CURRANT                       5 GAL   SEE PLAN       24" HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AG (2)                                    (5) SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PF2 (2)                                    (1) MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EAK PA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           YH (5)                                                                                                                                                              (2) EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD     47          SALVIA DORRII                         DORR SAGE                            5 GAL   SEE PLAN       12" HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BC (3)                                                                                                                                                              (2) EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MS (1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       QG (3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MS (2)                                  (2) PA                                               (2) AG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SD (5)                                                                                                                                               MS (2)                                                                                   YH     83          YUCCA HARRIMANIAE                     HARRIMAN`S YUCCA                     5 GAL   SEE PLAN       12" HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (5) AC                                               (5) PF2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD (5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PA (1)                                                                                                                                                                                                      (2) QG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (3) RG3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GRASSES            CODE   QTY         BOTANICAL NAME                        COMMON NAME                          CONT    SPACING        SIZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RKWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SA     27          SPOROBOLUS AIROIDES                   ALKALI SACATON                      1 GAL    SEE PLAN       18" HT MIN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AG (2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PERENNIALS         CODE   QTY         BOTANICAL NAME                        COMMON NAME                          CONT    SPACING        SIZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UO (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PA (2)                                     (2) AG                                                                                                PA (2)                         AG (4)                                                          DP     44          DALEA PURPUREA                        PURPLE PRAIRIE CLOVER               1 GAL    SEE PLAN       12" HT MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AC (5)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (5) PF2                                                                                               AC (5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (2) QG               YH (10)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GROUND COVERS      CODE   QTY         BOTANICAL NAME                        COMMON NAME                          CONT    SIZE           SPACING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AUTO NATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (3) RG3              EN (3)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAPER, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RC     27,243 SF   2-4" RIVER ROCK COBBLE                2-4" RIVER ROCK COBBLE               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (5) SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1) MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KB     47,536 SF   KEN-TEX BLUEGRASS                     KEN-TEX BLUEGRASS                    SOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PL (1)                                                         QM (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UO (2)                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1) UO                                                                                                                UO (2)             QM (1)    JH (18)                                                        UO (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PF2 (45)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2) AC                       SD (2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1) PA                       MS (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   //
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            //        //        //        //        //         //        //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   //                                                         //




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           QM (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 QG (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROPERTY OWNED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BY ROCKY MOUNTAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         POWER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9/3/2021


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9/3/2021


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9/3/2021


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AS SHOWN
                      \\SLCFP01\MT_SLC1\SLC_CIVIL\068682903 AUTONATION - DRAPER\CADD\PLAN SHEETS\LA.DWG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AMB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CPB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CPH


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CPH


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AJB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        068682903
HEUVELMAN, LINDSEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESIGNED BY:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHECKED BY:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT No.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SEAL
User:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t e of Ut a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHRISTOPHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PEARCE HEPLER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i t ec t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L i cen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NORTH                                           No. 11514932-5301




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               d
  9/3/2021 10:19 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lan       Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CAUTION: NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR                                                                                                  dscape
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THE CONTRACTOR IS SPECIFICALLY CAUTIONED THAT THE LOCATION AND/OR ELEVATION OF EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UTILITIES AS SHOWN ON THESE PLANS IS BASED ON RECORDS OF THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND, WHERE POSSIBLE, MEASUREMENTS TAKEN IN THE FIELD. THE INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE RELIED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ON AS BEING EXACT OR COMPLETE. THE CONTRACTOR MUST CALL THE LOCAL UTILITY LOCATION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L1.0
Date:
                      Path:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CENTER AT LEAST 48 HOURS BEFORE ANY EXCAVATION TO REQUEST EXACT FIELD LOCATIONS OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UTILITIES. IT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UTILITIES WHICH CONFLICT WITH THE PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
 EXHIBIT H
ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GLAZING LEGEND:                                                                                              NOTES - WIND & IMPACT RESISTANCE                                                                                        Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Revision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Number         Revision Description         Date

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            [GL-1]   1" Insulated with Low-E SolarBan 90                  [GL-3]     1/4" Clear                          1609.1.2 PROTECTION OF OPENINGS.                                                                                           1       Site Plan Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           063031
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Acuity + Acuity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Visible Light Transmittance 53%                                                                          IN WIND-BORNE DEBRIS REGIONS, GLAZING IN BUILDINGS SHALL BE IMPACT RESISTANT OR PROTECTED WITH AN                     2       Site Plan Review               080621
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          [GL-4]     1/4" Clear - Tempered                                                                                                                                                  Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     U-Value Summer 0.29 Winter 0.24                                                                          IMPACT-RESISTANT COVERING MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF AN APPROVED IMPACT-RESISTANT STANDARD                           3       Site Plan Review               083121

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHGC 0.23                                                                                                OR ASTM E 1996 AND ASTM E 1886 REFERENCED HEREIN AS FOLLOWS:                                                                  Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          [GL-5]     3/8" Clear - Tempered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              • GLAZED OPENINGS LOCATED WITHIN 30 FEET (9144 MM) OF GRADE SHALL MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            [GL-2]   1" Insulated with Low-E SolarBan 90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Acuity + Acuity                                                                                            LARGE MISSILE TEST OF ASTM E 1996.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tempered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              • GLAZED OPENINGS LOCATED MORE THAN 30 FEET (9144 MM) ABOVE GRADE SHALL MEET THE PROVISIONS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Visible Light Transmittance 53%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     U-Value Summer 0.29 Winter 0.24                                                                            THE SMALL MISSILE TEST OF ASTM E 1996.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHGC 0.23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.6                       6                                                                             7
                                                                                                                   1                                                       2                                                             3                                                         3.94                 METAL WALL PANEL MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT                                  5                                                                                                                                                       8                                                                                                           THESE DOCUMENTS HAVE BEEN PREPARED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCREEN WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SPECIFICALLY FOR THE FOLLOWING PROJECT:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-2]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THRU WALL GALVANIZED SCUPPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AutoNation - USA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (TYPICAL)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FACTORY FINISHED PARAPET CAP; COLOR
                                                                                                                                   PEMB STANDING SEAM METAL PANEL ROOF
                                                                                                                                   RE:SPECS                                                                                                                                                                             CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-4]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO MATCH CMU                                                               11601 S Lone Peak Pkwy,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                   SCHEDULED LIGHT FIXTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]
                  PEMB STANDING SEAM METAL PANEL ROOF                                                                              GC TO COORDIANTE LOCATION TO AVOID                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THEY ARE NOT SUITABLE FOR USE ON OTHER
                  RE:SPECS                                 Parapet
                                                    Top of WBYC                                                                    CONFLICT WITH OVERHEAD DOOR HOOD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Top      WBYC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TopofofParapet                                                                        PROJECTS OR IN OTHER LOCATIONS WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       APPROVAL AND PARTICIPATION OF
                                                      22'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22'-0"                                                                        THEARCHITECT. REPRODUCTION IS PROHIBITED.


                                                      Service Eave Ht.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ILLUMINATED BUILDING SIGNAGE TO BE INSTALLED                                         COPYRIGHT 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BY G.C. AND PROVIDED BY AUTONATION
                                                      18'-7 3/8"                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CASTLES DESIGN GROUP, P.C.
                  PEMB RAKE TRIM COLOR TO MATCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AVADECK CANOPY FASCIA TO BE [EP-3 PINK]
                  WALL RE:SPECS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOFFIT AND CEILING TO BE [EP-2 LIGHT GREY]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GL-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ALUMINUM FRAME AND SPECIFIED 1" THERMAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GL-1                                               GLAZING RE:SPECS.
                  PEMB GUTTER AND DOWNSPOUTS                                                                                                                                                               R8
                                                                                                                                   CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]
                  COLOR TO MATCH WALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-4]
                  PEMB EXPOSED FRAMING PAINT WHITE                                                                                 SCHEDULED PARTIAL VISION HI-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GL-1
                                                                                                                                   SPEED COILING DOOR RE: SPECS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PIPE BOLLARD (PAINTED EP-3 PINK)
                  PARTIAL HT. CMU SCREEN WALL PAINT WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GL-2
                                                      Floor Plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Floor Plan
                                                      0"                                                                           PIPE BOLLARD (PAINTED EP-3 PINK)                                                                                WATTS RD-950 SERIES, STAINLESS STEEL,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WATTS RD-950 SERIES, STAINLESS STEEL,                                                                              WATTS RD-950 SERIES, STAINLESS STEEL,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VANDAL PROOF DOWNSPOUT NOZZLE. (TYP.)                                                                   VANDAL PROOF DOWNSPOUT NOZZLE. (TYP.)                                                                              VANDAL PROOF DOWNSPOUT NOZZLE. (TYP.)



                                            North
                                        6
                                            1/8" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PEMB METAL WALL PANEL MECHANICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EQUIPMENT SCREEN WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCHEDULED LIGHT FIXTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G                                                  F.2       F                                          E.2            E                         D3              D                                                                   C                                               B                                  A         GC TO COORDIANTE LOCATION TO AVOID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONFLICT WITH OVERHEAD DOOR HOOD
                                                                                                                                                                            PEMB STANDING SEAM METAL PANEL ROOF                                                     MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT SCREEN WALL                                                                                                                                              ROOF ACCESS LADDER WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11601 S Lone Peak Pkwy,
                                                                                                                                                                            RE:SPECS                                                                                WITH LOCKABLE ACCESS GATE                                                                                                                                                     LOCKABLE ACCESS. (PAINT WHITE)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FACTORY FINISHED PARAPET CAP; COLOR TO                                                                                        FACTORY FINISHED PARAPET CAP; COLOR
                                                                                                                                                                            CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MATCH CMU                                                                                                                     TO MATCH CMU

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Draper, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Top of WBYC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Parapet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Top
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TopofofParapet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WBYC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCHEDULED HOLLOW METAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Service Eave Ht.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DOOR AND FRAMES. (PAINT)                                                                                                          Service Eave Ht.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18'-7 3/8"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18'-7 3/8"
                                                                                                                                                                            AVADECK CANOPY FASCIA TO BE [EP-3 PINK]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-2]
                                                                                                                                                                            SOFFIT AND CEILING TO BE [EP-2 LIGHT GREY]

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCHEDULED FULL VISION HI-SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                            PEMB RAKE TRIM COLOR TO MATCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COILING DOOR RE: SPECS
                                                                                                                                                                            WALL RE:SPECS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GL-1

                                                                                                                                                                            PEMB GUTTER AND DOWNSPOUTS
                                                                                                                                                                            COLOR TO MATCH WALLS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PIPE BOLLARD (PAINTED EP-3 PINK)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GL-1

                                                                                                                                                                            PEMB EXPOSED FRAMING PAINT WHITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WATTS RD-950 SERIES, STAINLESS STEEL,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VANDAL PROOF DOWNSPOUT NOZZLE. (TYP.)
                                                                                                                                                                            PARTIAL HT. CMU SCREEN WALL PAINT WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GL-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Floor Plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Floor Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0"
                                                                                                                                                                            PIPE BOLLARD (PAINTED EP-3 PINK)                                                                                                           SCHEDULED HOLLOW METAL DOOR AND                                                                                            SCHEDULED OVERHEAD DOOR, FACTORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FRAMES. (PAINT)                                                                                                            FINISH. RE: SPECS

                                                                                     1

                                                            East
                                                     7
                                                            1/8" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                          7                                                                                           6                      5.6
                                                                                                        8                                                                                                                                                                      5                       METAL WALL PANEL MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         43.9                                                3                                                             2                                                  1                                                         .5
                                                         FACTORY FINISHED PARAPET CAP; COLOR
                                                         TO MATCH CMU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCREEN WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PEMB STANDING SEAM METAL PANEL ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THRU WALL GALVANIZED SCUPPER                                                                     RE:SPECS
                                                         ILLUMINATED BUILDING SIGNAGE TO BE INSTALLED                                                                                                                                                                                                  (TYPICAL)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEMB STANDING SEAM METAL PANEL ROOF
                                                         BY G.C. AND PROVIDED BY AUTONATION                            CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCHEDULED LIGHT FIXTURE                                                                                                                        RE:SPECS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]                                                                        GC TO COORDIANTE LOCATION TO AVOID                                                                                                                                                                             PEMB STANDING SEAM METAL PANEL ROOF
                                                                                                                       AVADECK CANOPY FASCIA TO BE [EP-3 PINK]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PEMB RAKE TRIM COLOR TO MATCH                                   RE:SPECS
                                                                                                                       SOFFIT AND CEILING TO BE [EP-2 LIGHT GREY]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONFLICT WITH OVERHEAD DOOR HOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WALL RE:SPECS
                                                                                     Top of WBYC
                                                                                            Parapet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]                                                                                                                                                                            Top
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TopofofParapet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WBYC
                                                                                     22'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            22'-0"
                                                                                     Service Eave Ht.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Service Eave Ht.
                                                                                     18'-7 3/8"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18'-7 3/8"
                                                         CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Castle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2                                                                                               2                                    PEMB GUTTER AND DOWNSPOUTS                                      PEMB RAKE TRIM COLOR TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COLOR TO MATCH WALLS                                            WALL RE:SPECS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GL-1                                                                                                                      GL-1                                                          3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   s
EPT-1   - AUTONATION WHITE                                                                                  GL-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEMB GUTTER AND DOWNSPOUTS
        SW 7007 CEILING BRIGHT WHITE                     AVADECK CANOPY FASCIA TO BE [EP-3 PINK]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R8                                                                                                                                                     COLOR TO MATCH WALLS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group
        PAINTED CMU                                      SOFFIT AND CEILING TO BE [EP-2 LIGHT GREY]
                                                                                                                                                                                                   GL-1                       GL-1                           GL-1                    GL-1                      GL-1

                                                                                                            GL-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEMB EXPOSED FRAMING PAINT WHITE
                                                         ALUMINUM FRAME AND SPECIFIED 1" THERMAL                                                         GL-2                     GL-2

                                                         GLAZING RE: SPECS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARTIAL HT. CMU SCREEN WALL PAINT WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A Professional Architectural
                                                                                     Floor Plan             GL-2                                         GL-2                     GL-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Floor Plan                                                    Corporation
                                                                                     0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0"                                           3801 Kirby Drive, Suite 600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PIPE BOLLARD (PAINTED EP-3 PINK)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Houston, Texas 77098
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCHEDULED PARTIAL VISION HI-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tel: (713) 664-7974
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SPEED COILING DOOR RE: SPECS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fax: (713) 664-9756
                                                            South
                                                     5
                                                            1/8" = 1'-0"
EPT-2   - AUTONATION MEDIUM GREY
        RAL 9022 PEARL LIGHT GREY
        PAINTED CMU
        PAINTED METAL DOORS

                                                                                                                                                                  SCHEDULED LIGHT FIXTURE
                                                                                                                                                                  GC TO COORDIANTE LOCATION TO AVOID                                                                                                                                                ILLUMINATED BUILDING SIGNAGE TO BE INSTALLED
                                                                                                                                                                  CONFLICT WITH OVERHEAD DOOR HOOD                                                                                                                                                  BY G.C. AND PROVIDED BY AUTONATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A                                     B                                                        C                                                               D                 D3                             E            E.2                                         F          F.2                                G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AVADECK CANOPY FASCIA TO BE [EP-3 PINK]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]
                                                                                                                                                                      ILLUMINATED BUILDING SIGNAGE TO BE INSTALLED BY                                                                                                                               METAL WALL PANEL MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOFFIT AND CEILING TO BE [EP-2 LIGHT GREY]
                                                                                                                                                                      G.C. AND PROVIDED BY AUTONATION                                                                                                                                               SCREEN WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FACTORY FINISHED PARAPET CAP; COLOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TO MATCH CMU
                                                                                                                                                                      FACTORY FINISHED PARAPET CAP; COLOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                      MATCH CMU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-4]

EPT-3   - AUTONATION PINK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-1]
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Top of WBYC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Parapet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Top
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TopofofParapet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WBYC                                                                         Issued: 9/2/2021 - Expires: 12/31/2022
        MATCH PANTONE 204C
        PAINTED METAL SURFACE                                                                                                                                                                            22'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Service Eave Ht.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Service Eave Ht.
                                                                                                                                                                      CMU BLOCK PAINTED [EPT-2]          18'-7 3/8"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18'-7 3/8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AVADECK CANOPY FASCIA TO BE [EP-3 PINK]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOFFIT AND CEILING TO BE [EP-2 LIGHT GREY]                                        Exterior Elevations

                                                                                                                                                                      SCHEDULED FULL VISION HI-SPEED COILING                                                                                                          GL-1              GL-1                                                                                                                                                                                                             GL-1
                                                                                                                                                                      DOOR RE: SPECS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VINYL AUTONATION '3M ACCELERATOR' GRAPHIC.
                                                                                                                                                                      PIPE BOLLARD (PAINTED EP-3 PINK)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GL-2              GL-2               GL-2   GL-1                                                                                                                                                                                   GL-1                   PIPE BOLLARD (PAINTED EP-3 PINK)

EPT-4   - AUTONATION BLACK
        SW 6258 TRICORN BLACK
        PAINTED CMU                                                                                                                                                                                      Floor Plan                                                                                                   GL-2              GL-2               GL-2                                                                                                                                                                                          GL-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Floor Plan                                                                                A2.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ALUMINUM FRAME AND SPECIFIED 1" THERMAL                                                                                                                                            ALUMINUM FRAME AND SPECIFIED 1" THERMAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Date:                                4/21/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GLAZING RE: SPECS.                                                                                                                                                                 GLAZING RE:SPECS.
                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Project No:                         202008-317
Material Board                                             West
                                                     8
1/2" = 1'-0"                                               1/8" = 1'-0"
       EXHIBIT I
SITE LIGHTING PLANS
Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Note

 Symbol    Label   Quantity Manufacturer     Catalog Number         Description                   Lamp
                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                             Lumens Lumen
                                                                                                                               Per  Multiplie
                                                                                                                                              Light Loss
                                                                                                                                                         Wattage                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Efficiency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Statistics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIGHTING VENDOR INFORMATION:
                                                                                                         Lamps                                  Factor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GC TO CONTACT CITY LIGHTING PRODUCTS AS THE PREFERRED VENDOR
                                                                                                                              Lamp     r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOR ALL LIGHTING FIXTURE AND LIGHTING CONTROLS INQUIRIES.
                     39    Solais Lighting   GL1-9-5Q-740-STD       GL1-9-5Q-740-STD                       1                  9854     1          1       92.01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100%                                                                                      Description                                                                                                                                                           Symbol                                                                                                      Avg                                                                           Max                                                                                 Min                                                         Max/Avg
                           Inc dba
            A              EnergyLite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MANAGER/PJM: CHRIS SCHMALZRIED,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CSCHMALZRIED@CITYLIGHTING.COM, 704-235-3131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CUSTOMER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.9 fc                                                                      13.4 fc 3.9 fc                                                                                                                                                                      1.51
                      3    Solais Lighting   GL1-6-3M-740-STD       GL1-6-3M-740-STD                       1                        6619                                        1                                                                                    1                                                             56.13                                                                 100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PJM: PROSPERO FLORES, PFLORES@CITYLIGHTING.COM, 704-235-3140
            B              Inc dba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CUSTOMER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11.6 fc 14.3 fc 7.9 fc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.23
                           EnergyLite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EMPLOYEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12.8 fc 16.5 fc 8.8 fc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.29
                     19    Solais Lighting   GL1-4-4S-740-STD-HSS GridLite 1 Site/Area/Wallpack            1                        3041                                       1                                                                                     1                                                             35.85                                                                 100%

            C
                           Group dba
                           EnergyLite
                                                                  Luminaire, 4 Lumen Package,
                                                                  Type IV Short, 4000K 70CRI,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EMPLOYEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.6 fc                                                                      24.7 fc 2.4 fc                                                                                                                                                                      2.57
                                                                  House Side Shield
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FRONT LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.3 fc                                                                      14.1 fc 1.5 fc                                                                                                                                                                      2.24
                      5    POWERSECURE       GL2-14-3M-750-STD-     3569-47                                1                   10889                                            1                                                                                    1                                                       255.32                                                                      100%
            D              dba               HSS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FRONT LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.7 fc                                                                      13.1 fc 1.0 fc                                                                                                                                                                      2.79
                           ENERGYLITE
                      6    ENERGYLITE        GL4-30-5Q-750-STD-0- GL4, 30k lumens, type 5Q, 70             1                   31333                                           1                                                                                     1                                                             563.4                                                                 100%                                                                                      FRONT LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.3 fc                                                                      13.6 fc 1.9 fc                                                                                                                                                                      2.57
                                             10-0-BZ-ES           CRI 50k
            E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1 fc                                                                             0.2 fc                                                                       0.0 fc                                                                                          2.00
                      4    ENERGYLITE        GL4-30-5Q-750-STD-0- GL4, 30k lumens, type 5Q, 70             1                   31333                                           1                                                                                     1                                                             845.1                                                                 100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LINE
            G                                10-0-BZ-ES           CRI 50k,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.7 fc                                                                      24.7 fc 0.0 fc                                                                                                                                                                      4.33
                      0    ENERGYLITE        GL2-14-2M-750-STD-0- GL2, 14k lumens, type 2M, 70             1                   12287                                           1                                                                                     1                                                       127.04                                                                      100%
                                             10-0-BZ-ES-HS        CRI 50k, HOUSESIDE SHIELD
            I
                      6    ENERGYLITE        GL2-14-2M-750-STD-0- GL2, 14k lumens, type 2M, 70             1                   12287                                           1                                                                                     1                                                       127.04                                                                      100%
                                             10-0-BZ-ES-HS        CRI 50k
            J
                     12    Solais Lighting   GL1-9-4S-730-STD-HSS GridLite 1 Area/Site/Wallpack            1                        6609                                       1                                                                                     1                                                             92.21                                                                 100%
                           Group dba                              Luminaire, 9 Lumen Package,
           M               EnergyLite                             Type IV Short, 3000K 70CRI,
                                                                  House Side Shield




                                                                                                               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1          0.1          0.1           0.1           0.1           0.1           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2          0.3          0.4           0.3           0.2           0.1           0.1           0.1           0.1           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.4          0.8          1.0           0.8           0.5           0.3           0.3           0.1           0.2           0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2          0.1          0.2          0.2         0.2          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.7         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.2         0.5         0.8         0.9         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.0         0.8         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.8         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.0         0.7         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.5         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.3    0.7          1.5          2.2           2.0           1.5           1.4           1.2           1.3           1.5           0.9         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.7         1.0         1.1          1.2          1.5          0.9         0.8          0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.6         0.8         1.1         1.3         1.5         1.6         1.8         2.0         2.0         1.4         2.2         2.1         2.4         2.4         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.9         2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0         2.1         2.2         2.2         1.4         2.5         2.4         2.9         2.8         2.2         2.5         2.4         2.4         2.4         2.3         2.3         2.3         2.2         2.1         1.8         1.6         2.2         2.3         2.2         2.4         1.4         1.8         1.8         1.6         1.5         1.4         1.2         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.5    1.1          2.6          4.6           4.6           4.1           4.8           7.6           10.5          9.3           5.1         2.6         2.2         2.2         3.4         6.5         6.2         2.8         1.5         1.5         1.6         3.0         6.4         6.3         3.2         2.2         2.4         4.5         7.1         5.1         2.6         2.3         2.4         3.5         7.0          10.3         9.2          5.0         2.4          1.6         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.7         1.1         1.5         1.9         2.3         2.8         3.4         4.3         5.9         7.4         8.7         12.1        13.0        10.6        7.5         6.9         4.8         3.8         3.2         2.9         2.9         2.9         2.9         3.1         3.3         3.8         4.7         6.4         9.1         12.5        17.2        18.2        14.3        10.3        7.6         5.6         4.6         4.1         3.8         3.8         4.0         4.3         5.1         6.9         7.3         10.2        8.6         11.8        8.7         6.3         5.8         4.2         3.2         2.6         2.2         1.9         1.6         1.2         0.9         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1



                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.9    2.0          3.8          6.5           7.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M @ 10.5'                                                                               C @ 7.9'                                                                            C @ 7.9'                                                              C @ 7.9'                                                                              M @ 10.5'                              2.8         2.0         1.3         0.7         0.6         0.7         0.9         0.9         1.9         2.5         3.0         3.7         4.7         6.2         8.8         12.8        17.0        22.5        24.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D @ 17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.2        14.7        10.6        7.2         5.5         4.3         3.7         3.6         3.6         3.7         3.9         4.3         5.2         6.7         9.6         13.6        18.2        23.5        24.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D @ 17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20.4        15.2        11.4        8.3         6.5         5.5         5.0         5.0         5.4         6.2         7.8         11.0        15.1        20.3        24.5        23.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D @ 17'17.6        12.8        8.9         6.3         4.6         3.5         2.8         2.4         2.1         1.7         1.3         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.4         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8.5           9.8           12.6          13.1          11.3          6.8         4.6         4.3         4.3         6.0         7.9         7.0                     3.2         3.2         3.3         5.4         7.7         7.3         5.0         4.5         5.0         7.2         8.2         6.5         4.7         4.5         4.6         6.4         10.3         11.7         10.6         6.4         3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.3    0.6    1.5    3.0          5.2          7.3           8.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.3         2.3         1.6         1.0         0.8         0.9         1.2         1.6         2.3         3.0         3.7         4.6         5.7         7.5         9.7         13.4        17.2        21.8        23.3        20.0        15.4        11.3        8.4         6.7         5.2         4.4         4.2         4.3         4.5         4.8         5.3         6.4         8.1         10.4        14.3        18.6        23.2        24.2        20.6        16.4        12.5        10.0        8.2         6.8         6.3         6.3         6.8         7.8         9.6         12.4        16.3        20.6        24.2        23.0        18.3        14.1        10.2        7.9         5.7         4.2         3.3         2.8         2.5         2.2         1.8         1.5         1.2         0.9         0.6         0.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.6          10.5          10.4          9.1           7.3           5.7         4.5         4.3         4.0         3.6         3.4         3.2         2.9         3.0         3.2         2.8         3.0         3.3         3.5         3.8         4.2         4.0         3.8         3.8         3.9         4.3         4.6         4.6         5.3         6.1          6.4          6.4          5.7         4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.9    2.3    4.4          6.6          6.7           11.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.8         3.8         4.3         2.8         2.2         2.2         2.8         3.7         5.9         6.5         6.1         6.2         6.3         6.9         8.3         10.8        12.8        15.4        16.1        14.3        11.7        9.2         6.7         5.8         5.2         4.9         4.9         5.0         5.4         5.7         6.0         6.4         7.4         9.3         12.0        14.4        17.0        17.6        15.7        13.5        11.3        9.3         8.3         7.9         7.7         7.7         7.7         7.9         9.0         11.3        13.7        16.2        18.1        17.4        14.6        11.9        8.9         6.8         5.4         4.5         3.7         3.3         3.0         2.9         2.5         2.0         1.7         1.2         0.7         0.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.3          10.5          9.4           7.3           4.8           3.6         3.2         3.2         2.7         2.3         2.1         1.9         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.9         2.0         2.2         2.3         2.5         2.4         2.5         2.7         2.9         3.2         3.7         3.7         3.8         4.3          4.9          5.1          5.5         7.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                              0.0    0.1    0.3    0.8    1.7    3.5    5.8          7.8          9.9           14.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13.2        16.1        12.6        7.1         4.8         4.4         5.6         9.8         15.7        16.2        11.5        7.7         6.5         6.4         6.3         6.8         6.7         7.2         7.2         6.9         6.4         5.6         4.5         3.9         4.3         4.6         5.1         5.6         6.0         6.0         6.0         6.2         6.7         7.6         8.7         9.2         10.0        10.1        9.9         9.7         9.4         8.8         8.7         8.6         8.5         8.2         8.0         7.8         8.1         9.0         9.5         9.9         10.2        10.1        9.2         8.4         6.9         5.5         4.4         3.8         3.5         3.4         3.3         3.4         3.3         2.7         2.2         1.5         0.9         0.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.4          9.5           7.2           4.9           3.2           2.3         2.0         1.8         1.5         1.3         1.1         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.4         1.6         1.7         1.9         2.0         2.1         2.4         2.7         3.0         3.3         3.8         4.7          5.4          6.0          6.9         10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M @ 10.5'                                                                             M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                              0.1    0.2    0.4    1.1    2.2    4.5    6.8          8.7          10.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12.9        15.0        13.4        8.8         6.8         6.1         7.4         10.7        14.5        14.9        11.8        8.5         6.7         5.8         5.1         4.8         4.4         4.5         4.5         4.4         4.1         3.5         2.9         2.6         3.6         4.2         4.9         5.6         6.0         6.2         6.4         6.6         6.8         7.2         7.9         8.5         9.0         9.2         9.1         9.1         9.2         9.5         9.9         10.1        9.7         8.9         8.4         8.0         8.1         8.6         8.7         8.7         8.7         8.6         8.3         7.4         5.9         4.6         3.7         3.2         3.0         3.0         3.3         3.8         4.3         3.6         2.9         2.0         1.0         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                         11.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                              0.1    0.1    0.4    0.9    1.7    3.1    5.6                                                   10.1          7.7           4.8           2.6           1.5           1.1         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.6         0.7         0.9         1.3         1.7         2.0         2.5         2.7         2.8         3.1         3.4         3.6         4.0         4.4         4.9         5.6          6.8          7.3          8.1         9.3          10.5        10.7        10.0        8.4         7.1         6.7         7.0         7.9         9.1         9.6         8.9         7.8         6.4         5.3         4.1         2.6         2.6         2.6         2.5         2.5         2.3         1.9         1.7         1.7         3.0         3.8         4.7         5.6         6.0         6.5         7.1         7.4         7.6         8.0         8.5         8.8         9.2         9.3         9.4         9.8         10.1        10.9        11.9        12.2        11.5        10.5        9.7         9.0         8.9         9.0         9.0         9.1         9.0         8.7         8.3         7.3         5.7         4.2         3.2         2.6         2.5         2.7         3.4         4.2         5.2         4.8         3.8         2.5         1.1         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                              6.6          9.6           10.8          10.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                              0.0    0.1    0.2    0.5    0.9    1.6    5.2                                                                 6.1           3.3           1.5           0.9           0.9         0.9         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.4         1.4         1.1         0.7         0.6         1.0         1.9         2.6         3.4         4.4         4.6         4.4         4.9         5.3         5.4         6.2         6.9         7.2         7.9          8.9          9.4          9.9         10.2         10.0        9.0         8.3         7.4         6.8         6.4         6.0         5.5         5.6         6.0         6.4         6.5         6.0         5.0         3.5         1.4         1.2         1.0         0.9         0.9         0.8         0.8         0.9         1.0         2.8         3.7         4.7         5.5         6.0         6.9         7.7         8.6         9.4         9.5         9.2         9.3         9.7         9.9         9.9         10.5        11.7        13.3        14.0        14.1        13.8        12.5        11.1        10.3        9.9         9.8         9.5         9.4         9.4         9.6         8.9         7.3         5.7         4.0         2.8         2.1         2.1         2.6         3.5         4.9         6.3         6.7         5.2         3.2         1.1         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                              7.9          11.2          10.8          10.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                              0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.9    5.3                                                                 5.1           2.3           1.2           1.0           1.4         1.6         1.8         2.2         2.5         2.7         3.3         2.9         1.8         0.9         0.6         1.0         1.9         2.9         5.3         9.2         9.4         6.3         5.4         5.9         7.4         10.8        12.5        10.3        9.1          9.7          10.6         14.0        15.4         12.8        9.3         7.9         6.7         5.7         5.2         4.5         4.5         4.6         5.1         5.5         5.6         5.7         4.8         3.3         0.8         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.6         2.9         4.1         5.3         5.8         6.4         7.2         8.2         9.9         10.8        11.1        10.7        10.4        10.6        10.8        11.1        12.0        13.5        14.8        15.5        15.6        15.2        14.0        12.5        11.3        10.7        10.5        10.2        10.3        10.7        10.7        9.9         7.9         5.5         3.8         2.5         1.8         1.8         2.6         3.9         5.9         8.3         9.5         7.6         4.2         0.9         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                              10.5         14.1          11.4          9.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.3    2.8                                                                 4.0           1.9           1.1           1.2           2.0         3.2         3.6         3.9         4.5         4.8         5.7         4.7         2.3         0.9         0.5         0.8         1.6         2.5         5.4         10.9        11.8        6.3         4.9         5.6         7.7         13.8        16.2        11.4        9.5          10.1         10.8         15.8        15.4         13.5        8.6         7.3         6.1         5.2         4.4         3.8         3.5         3.5         4.1         4.9         5.4         5.6         4.8         3.3         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         3.1         4.8         6.0         6.2         6.8         7.2         8.2         9.9         11.3        11.8        11.5        11.1        11.3        11.5        11.8        12.9        14.3        15.3        15.5        15.4        15.2        14.4        12.9        11.6        10.9        10.8        10.5        10.8        11.3        11.3        10.0        7.7         5.3         3.6         2.3         1.6         1.8         3.0         4.6         7.4         11.6        13.4        11.1        5.0         0.9         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                           14.1          10.8          7.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AUTONATION DRAPER UT SITE LAYOUT
                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.4    3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                          M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                           10.8          9.3           6.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.5           1.8           1.1           1.1           2.1         4.3         5.4         5.7         6.5         7.0         7.3         5.2         2.5         1.1         0.5         0.5         0.9         1.5         2.4         3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.2         3.2         3.7         4.4         5.5         6.7         7.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.3         9.1          9.7          9.9          10.1        9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.0         7.9         6.9         6.0         5.1         4.2         3.5         2.8         2.9         3.6         4.5         5.6         6.1         5.3         3.5                                                                                                                     3.4         5.6         6.8         6.9         6.8         7.0         8.0         9.3         10.6        11.4        11.3        11.1        11.4        11.7        11.9        12.9        14.0        14.5        14.8        14.8        14.4        13.7        12.6        11.5        11.1        10.9        10.7        10.7        11.0        10.7        9.4         7.4         5.2         3.4         2.3         1.7         2.0         3.3         5.0         8.4         14.8        17.3        16.0        4.0         1.2         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    1.8                                                                 2.9           1.7           1.0           0.9           1.8         3.5         5.2         6.5         8.3         8.9         7.7         5.8         3.1         1.2         0.5         0.5         0.8         1.8         2.8         3.1         3.2         3.3         3.8         4.8         6.0         7.4         8.2         8.9         9.8          10.4         10.5         10.6        10.1         9.4         8.6         7.9         6.8         5.5         4.5         3.5         2.8         2.8         3.6         4.5         6.2         7.2         6.4         3.9                                                                                                                     3.7         6.7         8.1         7.7         7.1         7.5         8.2         9.1         10.0        10.4        11.2        12.4        13.7        14.0        13.5        13.1        13.5        14.3        14.9        14.9        14.3        13.1        12.1        12.2        13.0        13.1        12.3        11.0        10.3        9.9         9.1         7.5         5.5         3.6         2.4         1.7         2.1         3.5         5.3         9.5         18.3        22.1        22.0        7.9         1.3         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                           6.6           6.8           6.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    1.0          3.3                                                    2.9           1.6           0.9           0.9           1.7         3.4         5.1         3.5         2.2         11.2        8.1         6.3         3.6         1.7         0.8         0.6         0.8         1.7         3.9         5.1         4.9         4.2         4.3         5.7         7.3         8.5         9.5         10.1        10.7         11.3         11.5         11.5        11.0         10.3        9.8         8.9         7.8         6.5         4.9         3.8         3.1         3.1         3.8         4.9         6.9         8.1         7.2         4.0                                                                                                                     3.8         7.4         8.8         8.3         7.3         7.5         8.3         9.4         10.3        8.9         11.2        13.9        15.4        15.8        15.3        13.2        12.0        14.7        15.3        15.2        14.5        11.6        10.6        13.1        14.3        14.3        13.6        11.1        8.8         8.6         9.4         7.7         5.6         3.6         2.3         1.6         2.1         3.6         5.4         9.7         19.5        23.9        24.2        11.4        1.4         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                           4.8           6.3           5.8           3.8


                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.5          3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                           6.9           9.4           6.4           4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.1           1.5           0.9           0.8           1.6         3.1         5.0         6.3         8.2         A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.4         8.1         6.7         4.2         2.1         1.0         0.8         0.9         1.7         4.4         7.3         8.2         5.7         5.2         6.8         8.3         9.5         10.4        11.0        11.1         11.5         11.7         11.7        11.2         11.0        10.6        9.9         8.7         7.1         5.6         4.3         3.7         3.5         4.2         5.2         7.2         8.4         7.6         4.2                                                                                                                     3.8         7.4         8.7         8.4         7.2         7.3         8.1         9.2         10.2        9.0         11.0        11.5        14.9        16.1        13.1        13.1        12.2        14.4        14.9        14.7        14.2        13.1        11.1        11.2        13.5        14.2        12.2        9.3         10.6        10.2        9.3         7.5         5.5         3.6         2.3         1.7         2.2         3.7         5.4         9.2         17.2        20.5        19.7        7.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D @ 17'1.3         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2



                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3          3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                           8.4           11.7          6.2           3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6           0.9           0.8           1.5         3.1         5.2         6.4         6.6         7.3         7.5         7.3         5.5         3.0         1.5         0.9         1.0         1.6         5.0         10.4        14.6        9.4         6.7         8.2         9.1         10.2        10.9        11.2        11.1         11.3         11.5         11.4        11.1         11.3        11.1        10.4        9.3         7.9         6.6         5.2         4.5         4.4         4.8         5.6         7.2         8.2         7.6         4.2        J @ 25'                                                                                                      3.8         6.9  J @ 25'8.3         8.0         7.2         7.6         8.5         9.6         10.4        10.6        12.0        14.0        15.9        16.5       E @ 17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15.7        14.0        13.7        14.5        15.1        15.2        14.5        13.1        12.0        12.5        13.7        13.9        13.0 E @ 17'11.3        10.3        10.1        9.3         7.8         5.7         3.8         2.5         1.8         2.1         3.5         5.3         8.4         14.0        16.0        13.9        4.6         1.5         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                       C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2          1.9                                                                  1.6           0.9           0.9           1.7         3.6         5.8         6.3         6.4         6.7         6.5         6.9         6.1         3.6         1.8         1.0         1.0         1.6         4.9         12.2                    19.9        8.3         10.0        10.0        10.6        9.9         11.2        11.4         11.7         12.2         11.9        11.5         11.3        10.0        10.7        10.0        8.9         7.6         6.4         5.6         5.4         5.6         6.2         7.3         7.9         7.2         4.0                                                                                                                     3.6         5.9         7.2         7.1         6.9         7.3         8.1         9.4         10.7        11.2        12.3        13.0        14.2        14.8        14.2        13.9        14.0        14.3        14.4        14.5        14.2        13.2        12.2        11.6        11.6        11.6        11.0        10.6        10.7        10.4        9.3         7.4         5.4         3.6         2.5         1.9         2.1         3.3         5.0         7.4         10.9        12.5        10.0        5.6         1.2         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.7           5.7           3.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1          0.7                                                                  1.6           1.0           1.0           1.8         3.6         5.6         6.3         6.2         6.6         6.8         7.2         6.4         3.9         1.8         1.0         1.0         1.6         4.2         12.9                    22.6        9.7         10.4        10.8        11.1        10.1        10.0        11.0         13.4         14.2         13.8        12.7         9.0         9.9         9.9         10.6        9.7         8.4         7.2         6.6         7.1         7.7         8.0         8.6         8.7         5.5         3.8                                                                                                                     3.3         5.1         6.3         6.5         6.6         7.2         8.6         10.3        12.1        12.8        13.5        13.4        14.0        14.4        14.2        14.5        14.9        15.1        15.0        14.9        14.6        13.9        12.6        11.4        10.8        10.6        10.5        10.8        11.3        11.2        9.8         7.8         5.5         3.6         2.5         2.0         2.2         3.1         4.5         6.4         8.5         9.5         7.4         4.4         1.5         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.7           4.7           3.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1          0.4                                                                  1.7           1.1           1.1           1.7         2.9         5.1         6.3         6.5         7.0         7.5         8.0         6.4         3.5         1.7         0.9         1.0         1.6         3.6         10.5        15.9        15.5        9.0         9.9         10.8        11.2        11.3        11.8        12.0         12.6         15.1         15.1        12.9         12.2        11.4        11.3        11.0        10.1        8.9         7.7         7.4         9.0         10.0        9.9         10.3        10.1        5.1         3.6                                                                                                                     3.1         4.5         5.9         6.3         6.7         7.6         9.6         12.0        13.9        14.5        13.3        14.2        15.0        15.2        14.8        15.0        15.1        15.5        15.5        15.3        14.9        13.9        12.5        11.2        10.7        10.6        10.4        10.7        11.2        11.2        10.2        8.1         5.6         3.9         2.7         2.2         2.3         3.0         4.3         6.0         7.4         7.4         5.9         3.8         1.7         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.6           4.4           3.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.2                                                                  2.1           1.4           1.3           1.4         2.1         3.6         5.3         6.5         8.0         9.1         8.0         6.5         3.9         1.8         0.8         0.9         1.6         3.5         8.2         11.4        11.2        9.3         9.7         10.8        11.2        11.2        11.8        13.6         15.2         15.2         15.2        14.3         12.3        11.3        11.3        11.1        10.2        8.8         7.6         7.5         9.1         11.3        11.8        12.3        9.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14.1        15.4        15.3        14.8        14.2        14.1        14.5        14.7        14.6        14.0        12.7        11.3        10.3        9.9         9.8         9.6         9.7         9.9         10.0        9.2         7.6         5.8         4.1         2.8         2.3         2.5         3.2         4.3         5.8         6.8         6.2         5.0         3.5         1.8         0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.6           5.5           3.8           2.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.2          3.8                                                     2.7           2.2           2.0           1.5         1.9         3.2         5.0         2.4         2.7         11.6        8.4         6.9         4.3         2.1         1.1         1.0         1.6         3.4         7.3         9.8         9.8         9.6         9.8         10.9        11.4        11.5        11.8        13.4         14.8         14.1         15.1        14.1         12.2        11.6        11.6        11.3        10.3        8.8         7.5         7.3         9.0         11.2        12.6        15.7        9.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13.5        15.2        15.0        13.9        13.0        12.6        12.8        12.9        13.0        12.2        10.9        9.8         8.8         8.5         8.4         8.2         8.0         8.1         7.9         7.4         6.5         5.2         3.8         2.7         2.3         2.6         3.4         4.4         5.7         6.5         5.8         4.8         3.4         1.8         0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.9           9.0           4.4           3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G @ 20'
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.1          1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.8           9.6           4.4           3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.1           2.5           1.7         1.8         2.9         4.7         6.0         8.0         8.7  A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.1         7.2         4.7         2.5         1.3         1.1         1.5         3.2         6.9         9.9         10.0        9.9         9.9         11.0        11.8        11.8        11.7        12.2         13.3         12.7         13.6        12.6         11.8        11.8        11.9        11.5        10.3        8.8         7.4         7.2         9.0         11.4        13.4        16.1        6.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13.1        15.3        15.1        13.8        12.2        11.4        11.1        11.3        11.4        10.3        9.2         8.4         7.6         7.3         7.1         6.8         6.4         6.1         5.8         5.6         5.2         4.1         3.2         2.6         2.3         2.7         3.4         4.5         5.9         6.8         6.1         5.0         3.5         1.8         0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1



                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.1          1.7           C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.6           3.8           4.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.2           3.4           2.2         1.9         2.8         4.8         6.2         6.6         7.2         7.3         7.4         5.8         3.3         1.7         1.2         1.5         2.8         6.2         9.8         10.6        10.3        9.6         10.7        11.7        12.0        11.7        11.6         12.1         11.0         12.3        11.9         11.8        12.2        12.0        11.2        10.0        8.5         7.1         7.2         8.7         10.8        11.7        10.8       A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12.0        14.3        14.4        13.1        11.5        10.5        10.2        10.0        9.8         9.0         8.2         7.3         6.4         5.9         5.6         5.3         4.9         4.5         4.2         3.8         3.6         3.2         2.6         2.3         2.3         2.7         3.5         4.6         6.1         7.3         7.2         5.8         3.8         1.7         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J @ 25'
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.1          0.8                                                                   9.7           4.5           2.7         2.1         3.3         5.5         6.1         6.0         6.5         6.3         6.6         6.0         3.7         2.0         1.3         1.4         2.3         4.9         10.0        13.6        12.7        9.1         10.5        11.5        11.8        11.7        11.9         11.9         10.7         10.8        12.1         12.0        12.2        11.8        10.8        9.3         7.6         6.6         7.0         8.6         10.0        9.8         8.1         7.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11.1        13.5        13.7        12.5        11.1        10.5        10.4        10.1        9.7         8.7         7.5         6.5         5.7         5.2         4.7         4.1         3.6         3.2         2.8         2.5         2.6         2.4         2.2         2.1         2.3         2.8         3.7         4.9         6.6         8.4         9.3         7.3         4.4         1.4         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.6           2.7           5.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.3                                                                   10.6          5.0           2.9         2.5         3.5         5.2         6.0         5.8         6.3         6.4         6.8         6.2         3.9         1.9         1.2         1.2         1.8         3.8         10.4        17.9        21.7        10.1        10.4        10.9        11.2        11.6        12.2         12.3         11.1         11.3        12.5         12.4        11.9        11.3        10.2        8.7         7.1         6.1         6.2         7.3         7.5         6.9         5.4         5.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.4         11.6        12.0        11.4        10.5        10.3        10.2        9.9         9.4         8.3         6.9         5.9         4.9         4.0         3.4         2.9         2.5         2.2         1.9         1.7         1.9         1.9         2.0         2.1         2.2         2.9         4.1         5.5         7.8         10.9        12.4        10.0        5.5         1.0         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.8           2.0           4.6           11.8


                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5           1.9           2.4           5.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.6           4.3           2.6         2.3         3.1         5.3         6.1         6.2         6.8         7.2         7.8         6.4         3.7         1.8         1.0         1.0         1.4         2.7         9.9                                 10.0        9.2         10.0        10.4        11.4        12.0         12.4         12.5         12.7        12.7         12.5        11.6        10.6        9.4         7.9         6.7         5.9         5.6         5.5         5.3         4.0         3.8         4.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.6         9.5         9.8         9.6         9.0         8.6         8.5         8.1         7.6         6.6         5.4         4.5         3.7         2.9         2.4         2.0         1.7         1.5         1.3         1.1         1.0         1.7         1.9         2.1         2.4         3.1         4.4         5.8         8.7         14.0        15.9        13.9        4.5         1.3         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2



                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.2           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.9           2.3           2.3           2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.3           3.0           2.5         1.9         2.4         3.9         5.6         6.6         7.5         8.5         8.0         6.4         3.9         1.9         1.0         0.9         1.2         2.1         7.6         13.4        19.5       B @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.3         7.4         8.5         9.6         10.8        11.5         12.2         12.4         12.8        12.8         12.4        11.6        10.1        8.7         7.4         6.3         5.7         5.5         5.4         5.1         3.9         3.8         4.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.9         8.6         7.8         7.6         7.2         5.7         4.9         4.5         4.2         4.0         3.4         2.8         2.4         1.9         1.5         1.3         1.1         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.8         1.7         2.0         2.3         2.7         3.3         4.6         6.0         9.6         17.2        20.4        19.8        7.1         1.3         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2



                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.2           1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.5           3.2           2.6           2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.3           2.1         1.6         2.0         3.4         5.2         4.6         8.9         11.6        8.9         7.2         4.6         2.4         1.2         0.9         1.1         2.0         5.5         10.0        11.4        7.6         6.2         7.4         8.9         10.2        11.1         11.8         12.2         12.6        12.6         12.3        11.4        9.9         8.5         7.3         6.2         5.6         5.8         7.0         6.9         5.7         5.5         5.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J @ 25'                                                                                                                                                      1.5         2.1         2.5         2.9         3.3         4.4         5.9         10.0        19.5        23.9        24.2        11.3        1.4         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.2           2.6                                                                   1.7           1.4         1.3         1.8         3.2         5.2         4.5         9.1         10.3        8.9         7.9         5.5         3.2         1.6         1.1         1.1         1.9         4.3         7.2         7.6         6.5         5.8         7.0         8.4         9.5         10.6         11.5         12.1         12.7        12.7         12.4        11.6        10.3        8.7         7.4         6.4         5.8         6.2         7.8         8.8         8.3         8.2         7.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.7         2.4         2.9         3.0         3.3         4.4         5.8         9.6         18.5        22.3        22.0        7.9         1.3         0.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D @ 17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.7           6.3           3.8           2.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.2           4.2                                                                   1.6           1.2         1.2         1.7         3.4         5.6         7.4         8.3         9.1         9.4         9.6         7.8         4.3         2.1         1.2         1.1         1.9         4.2         6.7         6.6         6.1         6.1         6.9         8.4         9.7         10.8         11.6         12.4         13.0        13.1         13.0        12.2        11.0        9.5         8.2         7.0         6.2         6.6         8.0         9.4         9.9         11.1        9.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.1         2.8         3.3         3.2         3.3         4.2         5.4         8.5         14.9        17.4        15.9        4.1         1.3         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10.0          5.0           3.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1           3.5                                                                   2.2           1.4         1.2         1.8         3.8         6.9         8.6         8.4         9.1         9.2         10.0        9.1         5.4         2.4         1.2         1.1         1.8         4.2         6.5         6.8         6.2         6.0         7.0         8.6         10.2        11.3         11.9         12.7         13.4        13.5         13.4        12.6        11.5        10.3        9.2         7.8         6.8         6.9         8.3         10.3        11.7        13.8        6.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.8         3.6         3.9         3.6         3.5         4.0         5.1         7.5         11.7        13.4        11.0        5.1         1.1         0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9.4           6.0           4.0           3.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1           1.3                                                                   2.6           1.6         1.2         1.7         3.4         6.4         8.1         8.1         8.7         9.1         9.5         8.1         4.9         2.4         1.3         1.1         1.6         3.6         6.6         7.9         7.6         6.2         7.3         9.1         10.5        11.6         12.2         12.7         13.2        13.4         13.3        12.6        11.8        11.1        9.9         8.8         7.8         7.5         8.6         10.3        10.9        13.1        10.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.5         4.6         4.8         4.5         4.2         3.9         4.5         6.1         8.4         9.6         7.5         4.2         0.9         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.6           4.6           3.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1           0.6           3.1                                                     2.9           1.8         1.3         1.4         2.4         4.3         6.0         7.2         8.4         9.9         8.6         7.5         4.9         2.4         1.2         1.0         1.4         3.0         7.0         11.0        12.0        7.0         8.1         9.7         10.9        11.7         12.2         12.2         12.7        12.8         12.8        12.3        12.0        11.5        10.7        9.4         8.3         8.3         9.2         10.6        10.2        10.0        9.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.2         5.8         5.7         5.4         4.6         4.1         4.1         5.0         6.4         6.9         5.3         3.1         1.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.4           6.0           5.6           3.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1           0.4           3.4                                                                   2.0         1.3         1.1         1.7         3.2         4.9         2.4         3.8         11.4        9.0         7.5         4.9         2.5         1.3         1.1         1.5         2.7         7.0         12.5        21.7        10.3        9.6         10.8        11.2        11.8         12.0         11.9         11.9        12.1         12.1        11.8        11.9        11.6        11.0        10.1        9.2         9.0         9.6         9.5         8.3         7.8         7.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.1         6.9         6.8         6.0         5.3         4.7         4.4         4.7         5.2         4.8         3.7         2.4         1.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.9           8.6           7.0           4.5


                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.1          0.1           0.5           4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9.1           12.7          9.1           5.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.3         1.3         1.0         1.3         2.5         4.4         5.6         7.4         8.8    A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.9         7.4         5.1         2.7         1.3         1.1         1.5         2.5         7.1         16.7                    19.7        10.6        11.6        11.4        10.4         10.4         12.0         12.4        13.1         12.7        12.2        11.8        10.4        11.2        10.8        10.1        9.6         9.0         7.9         6.6         5.9         5.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.8         7.9         7.8         6.8         6.1         5.5         5.0         4.8         4.4         3.3         2.7         1.9         1.0         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0



                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.1          0.2           0.4           2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13.7          9.8           5.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.5         1.5         1.1         1.2         2.3         4.0         5.6         6.2         6.7         6.6         6.8         5.4         3.0         1.5         1.3         1.6         2.6         6.0         13.9        21.1        17.6 B @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.3        11.2        11.6        10.4         10.3         11.5         14.1        14.8         14.5        12.7        10.7        10.3        10.3        11.3        10.8        10.2        9.0         7.3         6.1         5.6         5.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.0         8.1         8.1         7.0         6.2         6.0         5.5         4.9         3.7         2.5         2.0         1.5         0.8         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1



                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0          0.2          0.4           0.9           3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.6          8.7           5.7           3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.0         2.2         1.7         1.6         2.3         4.2         5.0         4.8         4.8         4.7         4.6         4.1         2.6         1.6         1.4         1.7         2.6         5.2         11.2        14.6        13.5        10.3        11.1        11.5        11.6         12.1         12.9         12.9        15.3         14.2        13.3        12.5        11.7        11.7        11.6        11.2        10.7        10.3        8.9         7.3         6.6         6.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               J @ 25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.8         8.0         7.1         6.6         7.2         7.5         6.6         3.8         2.0         1.6         1.2         0.7         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.1          0.2          0.6           1.3           3.3                                                                   3.9         3.5         3.0         2.4         2.5         3.3         3.6         3.4         3.5         3.6         3.3         2.8         2.5         1.9         1.9         2.2         3.1         4.9         8.5         11.0        11.3        10.7        10.9        11.3        11.3         11.9         13.8         15.3        15.5         15.4        14.6        12.5        11.5        11.6        11.4        11.0        10.8        11.5        11.1        9.4         8.6         8.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.9         6.7         7.1         6.9         6.7         8.4         11.3        11.0        4.1         1.5         1.2         0.9         0.6         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7.4           6.9           6.0           4.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.1          0.2          0.7           1.7           4.0           6.1                                                     5.8         6.0         4.6         3.8         3.5         3.6         3.3         3.3         3.7         4.0         4.1         3.9         3.4         3.2         3.4         3.9         4.3         5.3         7.6         9.5         10.2        10.6        11.1        11.6        11.7         11.9         13.2         14.7        13.6         15.1        14.1        12.4        11.9        12.0        11.7        11.1        10.9        11.5        12.1        11.2        10.1        9.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.0         5.6         6.1         6.7         6.8         9.2         13.7        15.3        3.8         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.4         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.0           7.0           6.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.1          0.2          0.6           1.7           4.1           6.7           7.6           7.8           7.5           7.5         6.8         6.1         5.9         5.5         5.3         5.3         5.2         5.7         5.7         6.0         6.2         5.7         5.9         5.8         6.4         6.2         5.7         6.9         8.1         8.8         10.0        11.3        12.2        12.6         13.0         14.4         16.0        13.9         14.3        13.0        12.3        12.2        12.2        11.9        11.2        10.9        11.4        12.2        12.2        13.1        9.7         5.5         5.6         3.7         3.5         4.6         7.1         10.4        12.6        12.7        8.9         5.9         3.4         1.8         1.4         2.7         4.8         7.7         10.7        8.7         12.2        9.4         7.0         6.0         5.7         6.2         5.9         6.1         6.8         6.9         7.3         6.1         5.0         3.7         2.9         2.3         1.7         1.4         1.1         1.0         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.6         3.7         4.9         5.7         6.4         7.0         9.2         13.2        13.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.3         0.9         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.1          0.2          0.6           1.9           3.8           6.2           7.9           5.3           8.6           7.6         6.6         6.3         7.1         7.7         7.5         7.7         7.5         7.3         6.4         6.5         7.6         7.8         8.4         8.0         8.1         6.8         5.6         5.7         6.6         7.8         9.3         10.9        12.7        13.7         15.8         21.3         23.2        16.6         14.6        13.6        12.8        12.8        12.6        11.7        11.0        10.7        11.3        12.1        12.1        13.0        8.6         5.1         5.2         3.6         3.5         4.8         7.1         9.4         13.1        12.1        8.5         6.0         3.5         1.9         1.5         2.8         5.0         7.6         10.2        13.4        12.2        9.3         7.4         6.2         7.0         8.3         8.6         9.5         10.6        11.7        12.0        10.1        7.4         5.5         4.3         3.3         2.4         2.0         1.7         1.4         1.1         0.9         0.8         2.2         3.3         4.3         5.3         6.0         6.8         8.4         9.3         7.6         3.0         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1



                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.1          0.2          0.6           2.0           4.0           6.3           8.3           11.5          10.6          7.9         6.8         6.1         6.7         7.9         8.6         9.1         8.1         7.0         6.1         6.3         7.3         8.4         10.6        9.0         7.9         6.2         5.0         4.8         5.4         6.7         8.4         10.4        12.4        13.9         15.5         16.2         19.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15.6         13.7        14.4        13.4        13.1        12.6        11.8        10.7        10.0        10.8        11.9        11.0        9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.1         6.8         5.1         3.4         3.2         4.6         7.1         8.7         9.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.9         8.3         6.1         3.5         1.9         1.6         2.9         5.0         7.7         9.2         10.4       A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.0        9.4         7.7         6.7         7.3         9.2         10.6        9.8         12.8        13.6        13.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J @ 25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.8        8.1         6.2         5.1         4.0         3.1         2.6         2.2         1.8         1.5         1.2         1.1         2.0         2.8         3.9         5.1         5.9         6.9         7.4         6.5         4.8         2.3         0.6         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                        0.1          0.2          0.6           2.0           4.0           6.3           8.1           10.1          9.4           8.0         6.8         6.2         6.7         7.7         10.5        11.2        8.1         7.1         6.4         6.5         7.2         8.8         10.7        9.7         7.7         6.2         4.9         4.5         5.4         6.8         8.6         10.2        11.8        13.0         13.9         14.9         15.2        13.8         14.9        14.8        14.1        13.2        12.4        11.6        10.5        9.9         10.7        10.7        9.1         8.1         6.9         6.6         5.6         3.6         3.3         4.9         6.9         7.2         7.5         7.4         7.3         6.3         4.0         2.2         1.9         3.1         5.5         7.8         8.3         9.0         8.9         9.3         8.4         7.7         7.9         9.6         11.4        14.9        15.0        13.3        12.0        9.8         7.3         5.8         4.9         4.0         3.5         3.2         2.8         2.2         1.9         1.6         1.4         2.2         2.8         3.9         5.1         6.3         7.3         7.1         5.9         4.0         1.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1



                                                                                                                                                                        0.1          0.2          0.7           2.0           4.3           6.9           7.6           8.1           7.9           8.1         7.4         6.5         6.5         7.2         8.2         6.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.5         6.9         6.4         6.3         6.9         7.5         3.0        A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.0         7.3         6.4         5.5         5.6         9.7         16.7        15.7        11.6        11.2        11.9         12.7         13.5         14.0        14.1         14.3        14.4        14.3        13.3        12.4        11.5        10.4        9.7         9.5         8.4         7.0         6.2         5.2         4.8         4.4         3.4         3.1         3.9         4.7         4.5         4.8         4.8         4.7         4.9         3.5         2.5         2.4         3.2         5.0         6.0         6.1         6.5         6.8         7.2         7.5         7.1         7.9         9.9         11.9        15.4        14.6        12.2        10.3        8.1         6.1         5.1         4.6         3.7         3.3         3.1         3.0         2.7         2.3         2.0         1.8         2.5         3.1         4.3         5.7         7.0         8.4         7.5         5.7         3.4         1.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0



                                                                                                                                                                        0.1          0.3          0.8           2.1           4.5           6.0           6.0           6.3           6.3           6.9         7.3         7.4         7.7         7.6         6.9         5.4         7.5         8.1         7.4         7.4         7.7         7.3         7.6         7.6         8.2         7.6         6.5         6.8         10.0        14.1       C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14.3        11.4        10.8        11.4         12.0         12.6         13.2        13.3         13.6        14.0        14.0        13.4        12.2        11.3        10.3        9.4         8.1         6.9         5.8         4.9         3.9         3.2         2.9         2.7         2.4         2.4         2.4         2.4         2.5         2.7         2.8         3.0         3.0         2.7         2.8         3.2         3.8         4.2         4.4         4.4         4.8         5.1         5.3         6.0         7.7         10.1        11.6        12.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11.7        11.5        9.6         7.1         5.2         4.4         3.9         3.4         3.1         3.0         2.9         2.7         2.7         2.6         2.5         3.1         3.8         5.1         6.3         8.5         10.5        9.7         6.1         2.9         1.0         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                        0.1          0.3          0.8           1.9           3.4           4.7           5.0           5.0           5.4           6.2         7.6         9.0         9.6         8.1         7.2         7.5         8.4         10.0        9.9         8.9         8.2         7.9         8.5         9.4         9.1         9.0         7.8         7.9         9.6         11.0        11.3        10.7        11.0        11.9         12.4         13.2         13.1        12.9         13.1        13.8        14.0        13.8        12.6        11.9        10.7        9.4         7.9         6.6         5.5         4.5         3.5         2.7         2.3         1.9         1.6         1.4         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.8         2.1         2.6         3.0         3.2         3.3         3.4         3.5         3.7         3.9         3.7         4.1         4.3         4.6         5.5         7.7         9.7         9.9         10.0        9.6         9.5         8.6         6.6         4.7         4.0         3.7         3.3         3.1         3.2         3.2         3.1         3.2         3.2         3.5         4.0         4.8         6.1         7.6         10.4        14.7        13.8        6.3         2.0         0.8         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                        0.1          0.3          0.6           1.3           2.6           4.9           6.2           6.2           6.7           7.3         9.2         11.4        10.8        8.8         8.3         8.2         9.4         11.3        11.4        9.8         9.1         9.1         10.3        11.7        10.7        9.3         9.2         9.0         10.4        12.0        11.8        11.3        12.1        12.9         13.9         14.4         13.4        12.8         12.9        13.6        13.9        14.0        13.3        12.6        11.4        10.1        8.7         7.6         6.1         4.9         3.9         3.0         2.1         1.6         1.3         1.1         1.0         1.1         1.3         1.7         2.3         2.9         3.7         4.0         4.1         4.1         4.2         4.4         4.5         4.3         4.6         4.8         5.0         5.7         6.9         7.9         7.6         7.4         6.9         6.7         6.8         5.7         5.0         4.3         4.0         3.8         3.6         3.9         4.0         3.9         4.1         4.2         4.4         5.0         5.9         7.0         9.5         13.2        16.2        13.5        4.6         1.4         0.8         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                        0.1          0.2          0.4           1.0           2.4           4.7           7.3           8.0           8.6           9.1         10.8        11.8        11.5        9.9         9.8         9.3         10.0        10.4        10.9        10.3        9.8         9.8         11.2        11.9        11.4        10.3        10.3        10.0        10.8        11.1        11.9        12.1        13.3        14.3         15.2         14.9         13.6        12.8         12.9        13.4        14.0        14.2        13.7        13.1        12.0        10.7        9.7         8.7         7.2         5.7         4.4         3.3         2.4         1.7         1.3         1.1         1.0         1.1         1.4         1.9         2.7         3.6         4.4         5.0         5.3         5.3         5.3         5.4         5.6         5.4         5.6         5.6         5.7         6.2         6.7         6.7         6.3         5.7         5.3         4.8         4.9         5.2         5.2         5.2         5.0         4.9         4.8         4.9         5.0         4.9         5.2         5.4         5.7         6.4         7.3         8.4         9.5         11.5        13.1        7.2         2.0         1.3         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.3           0.9           2.5           4.9           7.5           9.2           11.3          11.4        11.2        11.3        11.2        10.7        11.8        10.0        9.7         9.4         9.6         9.7         11.9        11.3        10.5        10.8        10.9        10.9        11.6        10.1        10.1        10.2        10.9        12.0        14.6        15.0         14.7         14.4         13.6        12.9         13.1        13.3        13.7        13.8        13.4        13.0        12.1        11.3        10.7        9.5         8.2         6.6         4.9         3.8         2.9         2.1         1.6         1.2         1.1         1.2         1.6         2.2         3.1         4.2         5.2         6.2         6.8         6.6         6.4         6.3         6.6         6.4         6.6         6.5         6.5         6.9         7.4         7.1         6.1         5.2         4.6         4.2         4.5         5.1         5.6         6.2         6.5         6.2         6.0         6.0         6.2         6.0         6.3         6.4         6.9         7.8         8.9         9.2         8.7         8.6         7.0         3.5         1.9         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.3           0.9           2.7           5.5           8.8           11.1          14.0          14.1        12.7        13.1        12.8        12.1        12.6        11.0        9.9         9.9         9.6         9.5         12.0        11.8        10.7        11.2        10.9        11.8        12.3        10.6        10.6        10.7        11.2        12.2        15.8        15.8         14.7         14.4         13.5        13.0         12.8        12.9        12.9        12.9        12.7        12.4        11.9        11.7        11.1        10.2        8.8         7.3         5.7         4.4         3.6         2.8         2.1         1.7         1.5         1.5         1.9         2.6         3.5         4.5         5.8         7.0         7.7         7.8         7.4         7.1         7.3         7.2         7.3         7.1         7.3         7.9         8.0         7.5         6.5         5.3         4.5         4.3         4.5         5.1         6.0         7.0         7.6         7.5         7.1         6.9         7.1         6.9         7.3         7.2         7.8         8.6         9.5         9.3         8.4         6.5         4.7         2.8         1.8         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.3           0.9           2.7           5.6           10.1          12.6          9.9          A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.8        14.5        15.3        14.7        12.0        5.5        A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.3        10.8        11.0        10.6        9.7         6.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.2        11.6        12.3        11.5        10.6        6.3    A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.5        11.6        11.8        12.0        12.4        10.2       A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14.3         15.2         15.0         13.8        12.8         11.3        12.4        12.2        12.3        12.3        12.0        11.6        11.6        11.3        10.6        9.4         8.1         6.8         5.4         4.6         4.1         3.3         2.7         2.6         2.6         2.9         3.6         4.3         5.0         6.1         7.2         8.0         8.3         7.9         7.4         7.5         7.5         7.5         7.4         7.7         8.3         8.3         7.6         6.6         5.3         4.5         4.4         4.4         5.0         6.2         7.3         8.1         8.2         7.8         7.3         7.5         7.5         7.6         7.5         8.2         8.9         9.1         8.8         7.6         5.6         3.6         2.6         1.7         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.4           1.1           2.7           6.2           10.4          13.0          14.0          14.5        16.3        18.4        16.7        12.5        10.8        10.8        13.0        15.2        13.0        10.5        10.1        10.9        14.3        15.6        13.3        10.8        10.6        11.6        14.7        14.8        13.8        13.1        13.7        14.8         17.2         16.5         14.6        12.8         11.0        10.9        12.5        13.0        13.6        12.8        12.1        10.3        10.1        10.9        10.2        9.0         7.7         6.2         5.4         5.4         5.7         4.9         4.8         4.9         4.9         5.8         5.5         5.6         6.1         7.1         7.9         8.1         7.9         7.5         7.5         6.5         6.4         7.5         7.8         8.1         8.1         7.4         6.4         5.4         4.5         4.3         4.4         5.1         6.2         7.3         8.1         8.2         7.9         7.4         7.5         6.4         6.4         7.5         8.2         8.5         8.6         7.9         6.6         5.0         3.4         2.5         1.7         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.4           1.2           3.2           6.6           10.4          12.9          14.6          17.8        17.7        17.4        17.6        13.2        11.1        11.0        13.9        15.8        13.3        10.3        10.1        11.2        14.5        16.5        12.8        11.1        10.5        11.9        14.8        16.0        14.2        13.4        13.9        15.7         16.8         16.6         14.4        12.9         10.8        10.8        12.1        14.6        15.0        14.5        11.8        10.4        10.1        11.2        10.6        9.5         8.2         6.7         5.9         6.8         7.7         7.7         7.5         7.6         7.7         7.9         6.7         5.9         6.0         6.9         7.5         7.8         7.7         7.9         8.3         7.4         8.4         8.0         7.6         7.8         7.7         7.2         6.3         5.4         4.6         4.2         4.4         5.2         6.1         7.1         7.7         7.9         7.7         7.7         8.0         7.1         8.1         7.8         7.8         8.1         7.9         7.3         6.0         4.8         3.3         2.4         1.6         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.4           1.2           3.0           6.5           10.8          13.7          15.5          18.8        17.2        16.0        16.6        13.1        6.1         10.6        11.7        12.5        11.4        9.9         6.6         10.6        11.8        12.3        11.3        7.2         10.0        10.9        12.2        13.0        12.7        9.8         13.5        14.6         15.0         14.5         13.7        12.7         12.0        12.5        14.1        14.1        15.3        12.8        13.9        12.1        11.4        11.3        10.9        9.8         8.4         6.8         5.9         6.5         8.0         9.1         9.1         9.3         9.3         8.3         6.6         5.9         6.0         6.8         7.3         7.5         7.5         8.5         9.5         8.1         9.7         8.9         7.7         7.5         7.5         7.0         6.4         5.4         4.7         4.3         4.6         5.3         6.1         6.9         7.4         7.6         7.5         8.4         9.2         8.6         9.3         8.6         7.7         7.6         7.5         6.9         5.9         4.6         3.4         2.3         1.6         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.4           0.9           2.5           6.0           10.8          14.8          15.9          16.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17.1        17.8        15.5        13.0        7.9         11.3        10.6        11.0        10.5        11.7        12.2        10.3        10.8        11.0        10.5        12.4        11.5        10.2        10.8        11.5        11.8        15.0        15.0        13.8         13.8         13.4         12.8        12.1         11.6        12.2        14.1        15.2        11.5        15.1        13.9        11.9        11.2        11.2        10.8        9.7         8.2         6.6         5.9         6.4         7.6         8.7         11.5        12.0        9.1         8.0         6.8         6.2         6.2         6.9         7.5         7.6         7.7         9.0         10.1        9.3         10.2        9.5         8.0         7.6         7.6         7.2         6.6         5.6         5.0         4.5         4.8         5.4         6.2         7.0         7.5         7.5         7.7         9.0         10.0        8.2         10.1        9.3         7.9         7.5         7.5         6.9         6.0         4.7         3.5         2.4         1.7         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A @ 7.9'                                                          A @ 7.9'                                                          A @ 7.9'                                                                A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.3           0.7           2.1           5.2           10.0          14.0          15.0          15.7        15.7        16.2        15.2        12.8        13.1        10.7        10.3        10.4        10.1        11.1        11.7        10.1        10.4        10.5        10.3        11.9        10.8        9.9         10.2        10.7        11.3        14.3        14.4        13.6         13.6         12.9         12.5        12.1         11.8        11.9        13.2        14.4        12.6        14.3        13.1        11.7        11.5        11.5        11.0        9.8         8.2         6.5         5.7         6.1         7.2         8.0         10.5        11.0        8.4         7.7         6.6         6.1         6.2         6.9         7.4         7.6         7.7         9.0         10.1        9.3         10.2        9.5         8.0         7.6         7.6         7.2         6.6         5.6         5.0         4.5         4.8         5.5         6.3         7.1         7.5         7.6         7.9         9.2         10.2        8.7         10.2        9.5         8.0         7.5         7.5         6.9         6.0         4.7         3.5         2.4         1.7         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2           0.6           2.1           4.8           8.6           11.3          14.4          15.5        13.5        14.1        14.1        11.7        10.2        9.3         10.5        10.9        10.2        9.0         9.0         9.7         10.6        10.6        9.7         9.1         8.9         9.8         10.4        10.7        10.8        11.3        12.2        13.4         13.5         12.7         12.2        12.0         11.8        11.6        11.7        12.7        11.8        12.6        11.7        11.5        11.7        11.6        10.9        9.6         8.0         6.3         5.5         5.9         6.9         7.3         5.3         5.4         7.6         7.4         6.4         5.8         6.0         6.8         7.3         7.5         7.5         8.5         9.5         8.1         9.7         8.9         7.7         7.5         7.5         7.1         6.4         5.5         4.8         4.3         4.6         5.3         6.2         7.0         7.4         7.5         7.7         8.9         9.8         8.9         9.9         9.0         7.7         7.4         7.3         6.8         5.9         4.6         3.4         2.3         1.6         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2           0.6           1.8           4.1           6.6           8.4           10.1          9.2  A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.7        11.5        10.9        8.8         7.6         7.3         9.0         9.7         8.2         6.9         6.9         7.5         9.7         9.7         7.5         6.9         6.9         8.0         9.6         9.6         8.5         9.0         9.9         11.2         12.2         11.8         11.4        11.8         11.7        11.3        11.3        11.5        10.1        11.5        11.3        11.3        11.5        11.4        10.3        8.9         7.4         5.9         5.2         5.8         6.5         6.1         5.9         6.0         6.3         7.0         6.4         5.7         6.0         6.9         7.5         7.8         7.7         7.9         8.3         7.4         8.5         8.0         7.6         7.8         7.7         7.2         6.3         5.4         4.6         4.2         4.5         5.2         6.0         7.0         7.5         7.7         7.6         8.1         8.7         8.1         8.7         8.2         7.5         7.6         7.4         6.8         5.7         4.5         3.2         2.2         1.5         0.9         0.6         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2           0.5           1.5           3.7           6.1           7.1           5.4           6.0         8.4         9.0         7.3         5.2         4.3         4.4         5.1         5.8         4.8         4.1         4.0         4.4         5.6         5.6         4.5         4.0         4.1         4.9         5.9         6.0         5.4         5.7         6.6         7.7          9.1          9.9          10.7        11.0         11.2        11.1        11.4        11.4        10.0        11.4        11.4        11.1        11.1        10.6        9.6         8.0         6.4         5.2         4.8         4.6         4.9         4.1         4.0         4.1         4.3         5.4         5.4         5.6         6.1         7.1         7.9         8.1         7.9         7.5         7.5         6.5         6.4         7.5         7.8         8.1         8.1         7.5         6.4         5.5         4.6         4.3         4.4         5.2         6.1         7.2         7.9         8.1         7.8         7.5         7.7         6.8         7.7         7.4         7.6         7.9         7.8         7.0         5.8         4.5         3.2         2.2         1.5         0.9         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2           0.5           1.4           3.4           5.7           5.9           6.3           6.4         6.1         6.3         4.9         3.1         2.1         2.1         2.2         2.3         2.1         1.9         1.8         2.0         2.3         2.3         2.1         1.9         2.1         2.3         2.7         2.9         3.0         3.3         4.1         5.1          6.4          7.9          9.0         9.7          10.2        10.7        11.0        11.1        11.0        11.1        11.0        10.7        10.2        9.5         8.4         7.0         5.5         4.5         3.7         3.3         2.8         2.3         2.4         2.5         2.8         3.5         4.3         5.0         6.1         7.2         8.0         8.3         7.9         7.4         7.5         7.5         7.6         7.4         7.7         8.3         8.3         7.6         6.6         5.4         4.6         4.4         4.4         5.1         6.3         7.3         8.1         8.4         7.9         7.5         7.5         6.4         6.3         7.4         7.7         8.3         8.1         7.3         6.0         4.5         3.1         2.2         1.4         0.9         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2           0.5           1.2           2.5           4.1           4.7                         4.7         4.0         3.6         2.9         2.0         1.2         1.0         0.9         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.8         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         0.9         1.0         1.2         1.5         1.6         1.8         2.0         2.7         3.8          5.0          6.2          7.4         8.2          9.0         9.9         10.2        10.3        10.2        10.4        10.2        9.8         8.9         8.0         7.0         5.7         4.7         3.7         2.9         2.4         1.9         1.6         1.5         1.7         2.1         2.8         3.8         4.7         6.0         7.1         7.8         7.9         7.4         7.1         7.4         7.3         7.5         7.3         7.4         7.8         7.9         7.5         6.6         5.4         4.7         4.4         4.5         5.1         6.3         7.4         8.0         8.2         7.7         7.4         7.6         7.4         7.5         7.2         7.5         8.0         8.0         7.3         6.1         4.4         3.2         2.2         1.4         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.7           1.8                                                                 2.7         2.2         1.9         1.4         1.0         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.9         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.9         1.2         1.4         1.5         1.5         1.8         2.3         3.1          4.1          5.3          6.1         6.9          7.9         8.7         9.0         9.1         9.1         9.2         9.1         8.6         7.7         6.5         5.5         4.6         3.7         3.0         2.6         2.2         1.8         1.5         1.5         1.7         2.0         2.7         3.8         4.9         5.7         6.6         7.1         6.9         6.6         6.6         7.0         7.0         7.2         6.9         6.7         6.9         7.2         7.0         6.2         5.5         4.9         4.5         4.7         5.3         6.1         7.0         7.6         7.4         7.2         7.2         7.5         7.1         7.2         6.9         6.9         7.2         7.5         7.0         5.8         4.5         3.2         2.1         1.3         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.2           4.8           3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.4           1.6                                                                 2.6         1.9         1.6         1.6         1.4         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.5         1.8         1.9         1.6         1.3         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.9         2.5         2.4         2.1         2.3         2.6         3.2          4.1          5.3          6.1         6.4          7.1         7.7         8.2         8.1         8.2         8.2         7.9         7.2         6.2         5.2         4.4         3.7         3.0         2.6         2.6         2.7         2.6         2.4         2.6         2.7         2.9         3.5         4.3         5.1         5.8         6.3         6.4         6.4         6.4         6.4         6.8         6.9         7.2         7.0         6.5         6.7         6.8         6.7         6.3         5.8         5.1         4.8         5.2         5.8         6.2         6.9         7.1         7.0         7.0         7.3         7.5         7.1         7.0         6.9         6.7         6.9         6.9         6.6         5.5         4.3         3.0         1.9         1.2         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6.9           8.8           6.5           3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.2           1.2                                                                 3.0         1.9         1.9         2.3         2.8         2.7         2.6         2.6         2.6         3.2         3.4         3.4         3.3         2.8         2.7         2.8         2.9         3.9         4.3         4.5         3.8         3.5         3.7         4.2          5.4          6.5          7.1         7.2          7.2         7.4         7.8         8.0         8.0         7.3         6.6         5.8         5.2         4.5         3.7         3.1         2.6         2.5         2.8         3.7         4.9         4.6         4.9         5.0         5.0         5.7         5.2         5.4         6.3         7.4         7.0         7.1         7.1         7.2         7.8         7.3         7.5         8.1         7.4         7.5         7.6         7.4         7.7         6.4         5.1         5.0         5.8         7.2         7.4         7.8         7.7         7.5         7.9         7.7         7.8         8.2         7.9         7.8         7.6         7.3         7.5         6.7         5.3         3.7         2.5         1.8         1.2         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10.2          12.7          8.4           4.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.2           1.0           9.2                                                   3.0         2.1         1.9         3.1         4.6         4.6         4.5         4.5         4.6         5.3         4.8         4.3         5.1         4.8         4.6         4.7         4.9         5.9         6.2         6.1         5.7         5.1         5.3         5.6          6.9          7.6          8.1         8.3          8.0         8.2         8.4         8.8         8.5         6.9         5.8         5.1         4.7         4.1         3.4         2.9         2.6         2.5         3.0         4.8         6.8         7.5         7.6         7.7         7.7         7.4         6.0         5.1         6.5         8.3         8.7         8.8         8.7         8.9         8.7         7.5         7.5         8.7         9.1         9.1         9.3         9.2         8.9         6.8         4.8         4.6         6.4         8.4         9.3         9.4         9.4         9.1         8.9         7.9         7.6         8.7         9.5         9.3         9.2         8.9         8.8         6.9         4.5         3.0         2.1         1.5         1.1         0.8         0.5         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12.9          9.1           4.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0           0.1           0.8           6.5                                                   2.8         2.1         2.0         3.2         5.0         5.9         5.8         4.1         5.9         5.8         4.6         4.5         5.4         6.1         5.9         4.3         6.2         6.4         6.1         6.3         6.6         6.4         2.8         6.8          7.1          7.2          7.6         8.3          8.5         5.1         9.0         9.1         8.1         6.6         5.3         4.8         4.5         4.1         3.6         3.2         2.9         2.8         3.4         4.8         7.1         8.8         9.2         9.3         8.7         7.5         5.4         4.6         5.5         7.9         9.5         9.5         9.8         9.7         8.4         6.5         6.4         8.1         9.7         9.9         10.2        9.8         8.4         6.0         4.3         4.1         5.7         8.3         9.9         10.2        10.3        10.0        8.6         6.9         6.5         7.9         9.6         9.9         10.2        9.7         8.5         5.9         3.7         2.3         1.7         1.3         1.0         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.7           4.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0           0.1           0.4           3.1                                                               2.0         2.1         3.3         5.0         6.4         8.5         8.1         6.9         5.8         4.8         4.6         5.4         6.5         8.6         8.2         7.1         6.5         6.2         6.5         6.9         8.7         5.4         8.0          7.1          7.1          7.4         8.1          9.4         4.9         10.6        9.1         7.8         6.4         5.5         5.0         4.9         4.6         4.3         3.9         3.7         3.6         4.2         5.4         7.4         8.9         11.8        11.5        8.8         7.2         5.3         4.6         5.2         7.2         8.8         11.9        12.1        9.1         7.6         6.2         6.2         7.4         9.0         11.8        12.6        9.3         7.7         5.7         4.2         3.9         5.4         7.5         9.2         12.2        12.5        9.3         7.8         6.5         6.2         7.2         8.9         11.5        12.7        9.2         7.6         5.4         3.4         1.9         1.4         1.1         0.9         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.2           4.2           3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                    A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.2           1.5                                                               2.1         2.2         3.4         5.5         7.2         10.2        11.2        7.8         6.3         5.1         4.9         5.8         7.3         10.3        11.3        7.9         7.0         6.5         6.8         7.5         9.8         11.9        8.9          7.7          7.3          7.6         8.6          10.5        12.9        11.9        10.0        8.5         6.8         6.0         5.7         5.8         5.6         5.3         5.1         4.9         4.8         5.1         6.1         7.7         8.7         10.7        11.0        8.1         6.9         5.2         4.5         5.1         6.9         8.1         11.1        11.3        8.4         7.3         6.1         6.1         7.1         8.2         10.6        11.3        8.6         7.3         5.5         4.1         3.9         5.2         7.2         8.5         11.3        11.5        8.5         7.5         6.3         6.1         6.9         8.1         10.6        11.6        8.5         7.1         5.2         3.3         1.8         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.4           3.5         3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A @ 7.9'                                                                                        A @ 7.9'                                                                              A @ 7.9'                                                                                    A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.1           0.9                                                               2.2         2.1         3.4         5.6         7.5         8.0         8.4         7.9         6.6         4.8         4.7         5.9         7.6         8.1         8.4         8.1         7.3         6.3         6.8         7.8         8.2         8.9         8.6          8.1          7.3          7.6         9.0          10.1        11.5        11.2        10.8        9.1         7.5         6.9         7.0         7.3         7.2         6.9         6.8         6.5         6.2         6.1         7.2         8.5         8.6         6.3         6.0         7.6         6.9         5.3         4.5         5.3         7.0         7.9         6.0         6.1         8.1         7.4         6.1         6.2         7.3         8.0         7.0         6.2         8.1         7.5         5.7         4.2         4.0         5.4         7.3         8.2         6.2         6.3         8.1         7.5         6.3         6.1         7.0         8.0         8.1         4.9         7.9         7.1         5.3         3.3         2.1         1.5         1.1         0.9         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.5           3.4           3.7         3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.1           0.5                                                               2.1         2.1         3.6         5.8         6.7         6.8         7.0         6.8         6.6         5.1         4.9         6.2         6.9         6.8         7.1         7.0         7.2         6.7         6.9         7.4         7.0         7.4         7.2          7.7          7.4          7.8         9.0          9.3         10.4        10.7        11.4        10.4        9.0         8.3         8.6         8.8         8.8         8.7         8.7         8.5         7.9         7.6         8.5         9.2         8.3         7.5         6.9         6.7         6.9         5.9         5.0         6.3         7.6         7.5         7.4         7.4         7.6         7.9         7.0         6.9         7.8         7.5         7.2         7.4         7.5         7.8         6.5         4.6         4.5         6.0         7.7         7.8         7.7         7.7         7.5         7.9         7.2         6.7         7.6         7.7         7.3         7.2         7.1         7.5         6.1         3.9         2.6         1.8         1.3         1.0         0.7         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.1           3.6           3.6         2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0           0.3                                                               2.0         2.0         2.8         4.2         4.0         4.2         4.2         4.1         4.5         4.1         4.0         4.7         4.2         4.3         4.3         4.3         5.1         5.2         5.4         4.6         4.5         4.5         4.5          5.3          6.0          6.6         6.8          7.3         8.1         8.9         10.1        10.8        9.9         9.6         9.9         10.2        10.3        10.2        10.2        10.1        9.5         9.5         9.1         8.5         7.1         6.2         5.5         5.1         5.5         5.3         5.6         6.4         7.3         6.6         6.6         6.6         6.8         7.6         7.1         7.2         7.3         6.5         6.4         6.5         6.5         7.0         6.1         5.2         5.1         5.7         7.0         6.8         6.9         6.7         6.6         7.3         7.3         7.1         7.2         6.9         6.6         6.3         6.2         6.6         6.0         4.8         3.1         2.1         1.5         1.0         0.7         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.7           4.4         2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0           0.2           3.2                                                             1.5         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.9         1.8         1.9         2.1         2.4         2.4         2.2         1.9         2.0         1.9         2.1         2.5         2.8         2.7         2.3         2.2         2.1         2.5          3.0          3.7          4.3         4.8          5.6         6.4         7.9         9.1         10.1        10.4        10.6        10.8        11.0        11.1        11.1        11.3        11.3        10.8        10.3        9.5         7.9         6.3         5.4         4.6         4.1         4.2         4.8         5.4         6.1         6.4         6.3         6.4         6.3         6.3         6.8         6.9         7.0         6.7         6.1         6.2         6.4         6.2         6.1         5.7         5.2         5.0         5.4         5.8         6.1         6.5         6.5         6.3         6.5         7.0         7.1         6.6         6.4         6.2         6.1         6.1         6.1         5.9         4.9         3.7         2.5         1.6         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10.2          5.5         2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0           0.1           4.0                                                             1.2         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.9         1.1         1.2         1.1         0.9         0.8         0.8         0.9         1.1         1.4         1.4         1.2         1.1         1.0         1.4          1.8          2.5          3.1         3.9          4.9         6.0         7.8         9.2         10.3        11.0        11.2        10.2        11.4        11.4        11.4        11.7        11.7        11.6        10.9        9.7         8.2         6.7         5.4         4.6         4.0         3.9         4.4         5.2         6.0         6.7         7.1         6.9         6.7         6.6         7.0         6.9         7.1         6.8         6.6         6.8         7.1         6.9         6.1         5.5         5.0         4.7         5.1         5.5         6.1         7.0         7.1         6.8         6.7         7.0         7.1         6.8         6.8         6.4         6.5         6.7         6.9         6.3         5.2         4.0         2.8         1.7         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10.5          6.2         2.9         1.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.1           2.5                                                             1.2         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.9         1.1         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.7         0.8         1.0         1.2         1.3         1.2         1.1         1.3          1.7          2.3          3.2         4.4          5.5         6.7         8.3         9.8         11.0        11.5        10.5        10.3        10.3        11.5        11.3        11.6        11.7        11.5        11.0        10.1        8.9         7.5         6.0         4.9         4.3         3.9         4.3         5.0         6.1         7.3         7.9         7.9         7.5         7.1         7.4         7.3         7.5         7.2         7.3         7.7         7.9         7.5         6.6         5.5         4.8         4.7         4.8         5.5         6.6         7.5         7.9         7.7         7.3         7.3         7.4         7.2         7.3         7.0         7.4         7.7         7.6         6.8         5.5         4.0         2.9         1.9         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.7           4.9         3.4         2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.1           1.1                                                             1.3         0.9         0.9         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.5         1.9         2.1         1.6         1.3         1.3         1.4         1.5         2.0         2.5         2.2         1.8         2.0          2.4          3.1          4.3         6.0          7.1         8.3         9.8         11.1        11.9        12.3        12.4        11.0        11.1        12.5        12.2        11.8        11.4        11.2        11.1        10.7        9.5         8.1         6.5         5.2         4.5         4.2         4.3         5.0         6.2         7.4         8.2         8.4         8.0         7.5         7.6         7.5         7.6         7.4         7.7         8.3         8.3         7.7         6.7         5.5         4.7         4.7         4.8         5.6         6.8         7.7         8.3         8.3         7.7         7.4         7.6         7.5         7.5         7.4         7.9         8.2         7.9         6.9         5.5         4.0         2.8         1.9         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.2         4.0         2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.1           0.6                                                             1.5         1.0         1.2         1.9         2.7         2.7         2.6         2.6         2.7         3.3         3.8         3.7         3.5         2.8         2.7         2.8         3.0         4.0         4.2         4.4         3.6         3.5          3.9          4.6          6.6         8.2          9.7         10.9        12.0        13.2        13.6        13.9        13.7        13.7        12.9        14.5        14.2        12.9        11.6        11.3        11.2        10.8        9.8         8.5         6.9         5.4         4.6         4.2         4.3         5.0         6.1         7.2         8.1         8.3         8.0         7.5         7.5         6.5         6.3         7.4         7.9         8.2         8.2         7.5         6.5         5.6         4.7         4.5         4.8         5.6         6.6         7.6         8.1         8.1         7.8         7.4         6.3         6.4         7.5         7.4         7.9         8.1         7.8         6.8         5.4         4.0         2.8         2.0         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.0           4.3         4.2         2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0           0.5                                                                         1.2         1.4         2.5         4.3         4.7         4.4         4.4         4.5         5.3         5.3         5.1         5.5         4.8         4.7         4.7         5.0         5.9         6.1         6.1         5.6         5.4          5.8          6.7          8.7         10.2         11.7        13.3        14.3        15.5        15.8        16.1        15.4        14.9        15.4        14.2        15.1        14.1        12.3        11.4        10.0        9.2         9.8         8.3         6.8         5.3         4.5         4.2         4.3         5.1         5.9         7.0         7.7         7.9         7.8         7.8         8.1         7.3         8.3         7.9         7.7         7.9         7.8         7.3         6.4         5.6         4.8         4.5         4.8         5.6         6.4         7.3         7.8         7.9         7.7         7.9         7.6         7.9         8.0         7.7         7.6         7.7         7.4         6.6         5.3         4.1         2.8         1.9         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.9         4.9         2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0           0.3                                                                         1.3         1.5         2.8         4.6         5.8         5.8         2.1         6.0         6.0         5.3         5.2         5.9         6.1         4.1         4.1         6.4         6.3         6.1         6.4         6.7         6.7          5.4          8.0          9.1         10.2         11.9        14.2        15.6        13.2        17.3        16.9        15.6        15.5        15.6        15.4        15.2        12.3        12.4        10.0        9.9         10.7        9.7         8.3         6.8         5.3         4.5         4.2         4.3         5.1         5.9         6.8         7.5         7.6         7.6         8.4         9.4         8.7         9.5         8.8         7.7         7.6         7.5         7.1         6.4         5.6         4.9         4.6         5.0         5.6         6.5         7.1         7.5         7.6         7.7         8.8         9.5         7.5         9.3         8.3         7.4         7.4         7.2         6.5         5.3         4.2         2.9         1.9         1.3         0.8         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10.6        5.6         3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.1           0.2           0.4                                                           1.6         1.7         2.9         4.6         6.1         8.0         4.8         7.3         6.1         5.5         5.3         5.9         6.9         9.1         9.0         7.0         6.4         6.1         6.6         7.2         9.5          9.5          8.9          9.2         10.3         12.2        14.5        17.8        15.7        18.5        16.9        15.3        14.7        15.0        15.2        14.8        13.7        12.1        11.3        11.2        10.8        9.8         8.4         6.9         5.4         4.7         4.3         4.5         5.2         6.1         7.0         7.6         7.7         7.7         9.0         10.1        8.8         10.2        9.5         8.0         7.6         7.6         7.2         6.6         5.7         5.2         4.8         5.2         5.8         6.6         7.2         7.5         7.6         8.0         9.5         10.1        9.4         10.0        8.8         7.6         7.5         7.3         6.6         5.5         4.3         3.0         2.0         1.3         0.8         0.5         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.2           3.5          C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10.2        6.4         4.2         3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.2         1.9         3.0         5.0         6.9         9.4         11.5        8.3         6.8         5.8         5.6         6.4         7.6         10.9        10.9        7.7         6.9         6.5         6.9         8.0         11.0         12.3         9.6          9.6         10.3         12.1        12.6        18.6        21.8        19.2        17.4        15.4        14.0        12.3        13.6        13.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.4        11.3        11.1        11.2        10.7        9.7         8.3         6.8         5.4         4.7         4.3         4.5         5.3         6.1         7.0         7.6         7.7         7.8         9.1         10.1        10.0        10.2        9.6         8.1         7.6         7.6         7.3         6.7         5.8         5.2         4.8         5.3         5.8         6.7         7.3         7.6         7.6         8.1         9.6         10.1        10.0        10.1        8.9         7.6         7.5         7.3         6.6         5.5         4.3         3.0         2.0         1.3         0.8         0.5         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.0         5.8         4.7         3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A @ 7.9'                                                                                  A @ 7.9'                                                                                 A @ 7.9'                                                                                 A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E @ 20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.1           1.9                                                           2.4         2.1         3.1         5.1         7.2         7.9         8.6         8.0         7.2         5.7         5.5         6.6         7.8         8.3         8.3         8.0         7.1         6.3         7.1         8.2         8.6          9.2          9.5          9.5         9.2          11.4        14.1        16.2        18.2        18.4        17.8        15.4        12.1        10.9        11.9        11.6        11.4        11.5        11.3        11.0        10.3        9.2         7.9         6.3         5.0         4.4         4.0         4.3         5.1         6.0         6.9         7.5         7.6         7.7         8.6         9.7         7.6         9.8         9.1         7.8         7.5         7.5         7.1         6.5         5.6         5.0         4.6         5.0         5.6         6.5         7.1         7.4         7.5         7.8         9.1         9.8         8.2         9.5         8.5         7.5         7.4         7.2         6.5         5.4         4.2         2.9         1.9         1.3         0.8         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.5         3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.1           1.3                                                           2.8         2.3         3.4         5.3         6.8         6.7         7.1         6.8         6.9         5.9         5.7         6.7         6.9         7.0         7.0         7.1         7.2         6.9         7.2         7.4         7.3          7.7          8.1          9.0         9.6          10.9        12.9        14.2        15.9        16.6        17.0        14.2        11.9        11.9        11.5        11.2        11.5        11.7        11.5        10.7        9.6         8.3         6.9         5.6         4.6         4.1         3.8         4.0         5.0         5.9         6.9         7.6         7.8         7.7         8.0         8.5         7.6         8.6         8.1         7.6         7.7         7.7         7.2         6.4         5.5         4.8         4.5         4.8         5.5         6.4         7.2         7.7         7.7         7.6         8.1         8.6         8.2         8.4         7.9         7.6         7.6         7.3         6.5         5.3         4.1         2.8         1.9         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.7         4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.1           1.0                                                                       2.6         2.9         4.2         4.1         4.2         4.2         4.2         4.6         4.7         4.6         4.9         4.3         4.4         4.4         4.5         5.3         5.2         5.4         4.6         4.6          4.9          5.2          6.5         7.6          9.0         9.4         10.8        12.1        12.9        13.8        13.6        10.9        11.8        11.4        11.2        11.5        11.5        11.1        10.2        8.9         7.4         5.8         4.7         4.0         3.5         3.5         3.9         4.8         5.9         7.1         7.9         8.1         8.0         7.6         7.6         6.7         6.5         7.5         7.7         8.0         8.0         7.4         6.4         5.5         4.7         4.5         4.7         5.6         6.5         7.5         8.0         8.0         7.6         7.4         6.4         6.6         7.5         7.5         7.8         7.9         7.6         6.7         5.4         4.0         2.8         1.9         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11.9        8.8         5.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.1           1.0                                                                       2.5         2.1         2.0         2.0         2.0         1.8         2.1         2.2         2.6         2.7         2.4         2.1         2.0         2.1         2.1         2.6         2.9         2.7         2.3         2.3          2.3          2.8          3.7         4.8          5.7         6.4         7.3         8.4         9.5         10.1        10.7        11.1        11.0        10.8        10.7        10.8        10.6        9.9         9.1         7.8         6.3         4.9         4.0         3.4         3.0         3.2         3.7         4.6         6.0         7.3         8.1         8.4         8.0         7.6         7.5         6.3         6.3         7.4         7.7         8.3         8.2         7.6         6.6         5.4         4.7         4.6         4.7         5.5         6.6         7.6         8.2         8.2         7.6         7.3         6.2         6.2         7.3         7.4         7.9         8.1         7.8         6.8         5.5         3.9         2.8         1.9         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13.6        9.7         5.1         3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.1           0.3           7.0                                                         2.3         1.7         1.3         1.0         1.0         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.4         1.5         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.3         1.2         1.0         1.0          1.0          1.4          2.0         2.8          3.6         4.2         5.0         5.7         6.8         7.5         8.5         9.3         9.6         9.6         9.4         9.5         9.2         8.4         7.4         6.4         5.1         4.2         3.3         2.8         2.7         3.0         3.7         4.7         6.1         7.3         8.0         8.3         7.8         7.4         7.5         7.4         7.4         7.2         7.3         7.8         8.0         7.4         6.5         5.3         4.6         4.5         4.6         5.3         6.5         7.4         7.9         7.8         7.2         7.1         7.2         7.1         7.2         7.0         7.4         7.8         7.5         6.7         5.4         3.9         2.8         1.8         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.1           0.4           3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11.0        8.6         5.1         3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.2         1.6         1.3         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.3         1.2         1.0         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.7          0.8          1.0          1.4         2.0          2.5         3.2         3.8         4.2         4.9         5.8         6.9         7.7         8.1         8.0         7.9         7.9         7.5         6.8         5.8         5.0         4.3         3.4         2.8         2.5         2.6         3.0         3.9         5.0         6.0         7.0         7.7         7.5         7.2         6.9         7.1         6.8         6.9         6.6         6.5         6.7         7.0         6.7         5.8         5.0         4.4         4.1         4.5         5.0         5.9         6.7         7.0         6.6         6.4         6.4         6.5         6.3         6.5         6.2         6.4         6.6         6.8         6.0         4.9         3.8         2.7         1.7         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.8         5.4         4.2         2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1           0.2           1.9                                                         2.2         1.8         1.7         1.7         1.7         2.0         2.1         2.1         2.0         1.8         1.7         1.6         1.3         1.1         1.0         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.2          1.2          1.2          1.5         1.9          2.3         2.8         3.2         3.7         4.2         4.9         5.7         6.3         6.7         6.6         6.3         6.2         6.0         5.6         4.8         4.2         3.5         2.9         2.6         2.6         2.8         3.4         4.2         5.2         6.0         6.8         7.1         6.9         6.6         6.4         6.4         5.9         5.8         5.6         5.3         5.4         5.5         5.4         4.9         4.5         4.0         3.7         4.0         4.5         4.9         5.4         5.4         5.3         5.1         5.3         5.3         5.2         5.4         5.1         5.1         5.2         5.3         4.9         4.2         3.4         2.4         1.5         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.8         3.2         3.2         2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.1           1.0                                             2.8         2.2         2.1         2.5         2.5         2.7         2.9         3.1         3.1         2.9         2.7         2.7         2.5         2.1         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.9         2.1         2.0          2.0          2.1          2.3         2.4          2.8         3.1         3.3         3.7         4.3         5.0         5.5         5.9         6.0         5.8         5.6         5.4         5.2         4.9         4.4         3.7         3.4         3.1         2.9         2.9         3.3         4.2         4.6         5.3         6.2         6.6         6.6         6.4         6.1         6.0         5.9         4.9         4.6         4.3         4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0         3.6         3.3         3.2         3.3         3.6         4.0         4.0         3.9         3.9         3.8         4.1         4.0         3.9         4.0         3.9         3.7         3.7         3.7         3.7         3.3         2.6         1.9         1.4         0.9         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.1           0.6         1.4         2.0         2.1         2.2         1.9         2.2         2.7         3.2         4.3         5.5         5.9         5.8         5.0         3.8         3.2         3.2         3.0         2.8         3.0         3.1         3.1         3.2         3.6         3.3          3.2          3.3          3.4         3.4          3.9         4.1         4.0         4.3         4.9         5.5         6.3         6.5         6.1         5.8         5.5         5.0         4.9         4.9         4.5         4.0         3.8         3.8         3.6         3.6         4.1         4.5         4.9         5.9         7.5         7.9         7.8         7.5         6.2         5.5         5.0         3.9         3.3         3.0         2.8         2.7         2.8         2.9         2.9         2.7         2.5         2.4         2.5         2.7         2.9         2.9         2.8         2.6         2.6         2.8         2.7         2.6         2.8         2.7         2.5         2.6         2.6         2.6         2.3         1.9         1.4         1.1         0.8         0.5         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.0           0.3         0.7         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.9         2.5         3.2         5.2         9.1         11.5        11.1        7.1         4.1         3.1         3.0         3.2         3.9         6.5         7.6         5.8         3.9         3.8         3.9          5.5          7.7          7.1         4.6          3.9         4.0         4.6         7.3         8.8         7.6         6.2         6.2         7.0         8.1         7.8         5.8         4.6         4.4         4.2         4.7         6.3         7.0         5.8         4.3         4.1         4.1         4.4         5.9         9.3         12.2        12.2        9.1         5.9         4.6         3.8         2.9         2.3         2.1         1.9         1.8         1.9         1.9         1.9         1.9         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.9         1.9         1.9         1.9         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.7         1.7         1.7         1.6         1.5         1.3         1.1         0.8         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.0           0.1         0.3         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.9         1.3         2.0         2.5         4.7         9.6         14.2        13.1        7.0         3.4         2.4         2.4         2.5         3.6         8.6         11.7        7.1         3.4         3.2         3.3          6.4          11.6         9.8         4.6          3.1         3.2         4.2         9.2         12.5        8.4         5.2         5.0         7.2         11.7        11.4        6.2         3.6         3.5         3.4         4.5         9.1         11.5        7.7         4.0         3.5         3.5         3.6         5.2         9.6         14.6        14.5        9.3         5.2         3.5         2.9         2.0         1.5         1.3         1.2         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.3         1.3         1.3         1.3         1.3         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.0         1.0         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M @ 10.5'                                                                                               C @ 7.9'                                                                       C @ 7.9'                                                                         C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.0           0.0         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.6         0.9         1.2         2.0         3.3         4.8         4.2         2.7         1.6         1.1         0.9         0.9         1.2         2.0         1.6         1.8         1.2         1.0         1.1          1.7          3.1          2.5         1.6          1.1         1.2         1.5         2.4         2.1         2.5         2.2         2.2         3.1         4.7         4.6         2.8         1.7         1.5         1.6         2.1         3.8         3.7         3.3         2.0         1.7         1.8         1.9         2.7         4.7         6.9         6.9         4.6         2.8         1.9         1.6         1.1         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.2         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1          0.2          0.2          0.2         0.2          0.2         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Designer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8/6/21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Scale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1" = 40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Drawing No.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Plan View                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Scale - 1" = 40ft
Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Note

 Symbol    Label   Quantity Manufacturer     Catalog Number         Description                   Lamp
                                                                                                         Number
                                                                                                                             Lumens Lumen
                                                                                                                               Per  Multiplie
                                                                                                                                              Light Loss
                                                                                                                                                         Wattage                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Efficiency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Statistics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LIGHTING VENDOR INFORMATION:
                                                                                                         Lamps                                  Factor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GC TO CONTACT CITY LIGHTING PRODUCTS AS THE PREFERRED VENDOR
                                                                                                                              Lamp     r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOR ALL LIGHTING FIXTURE AND LIGHTING CONTROLS INQUIRIES.
                     39    Solais Lighting   GL1-9-5Q-740-STD       GL1-9-5Q-740-STD                       1                  9854     1         0.6      92.01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        100%                                                                                      Description                                                                                                                                                   Symbol                                                                                                          Avg                                                                           Max                                                                                 Min                                                         Max/Avg
                           Inc dba
            A              EnergyLite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MANAGER/PJM: CHRIS SCHMALZRIED,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CSCHMALZRIED@CITYLIGHTING.COM, 704-235-3131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CUSTOMER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.4 fc                                                                             8.0 fc                                                                       2.4 fc                                                                                          1.48
                      3    Solais Lighting   GL1-6-3M-740-STD       GL1-6-3M-740-STD                       1                        6619                                       1                                                                         0.6                                                                     56.13                                                                 100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PJM: PROSPERO FLORES, PFLORES@CITYLIGHTING.COM, 704-235-3140
            B              Inc dba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CUSTOMER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.9 fc                                                                             8.6 fc                                                                       4.7 fc                                                                                          1.25
                           EnergyLite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EMPLOYEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.7 fc                                                                             9.9 fc                                                                       5.3 fc                                                                                          1.29
                     19    Solais Lighting   GL1-4-4S-740-STD-HSS GridLite 1 Site/Area/Wallpack            1                        3041                                       1                                                                         0.6                                                                     35.85                                                                 100%

            C
                           Group dba
                           EnergyLite
                                                                  Luminaire, 4 Lumen Package,
                                                                  Type IV Short, 4000K 70CRI,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EMPLOYEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.8 fc                                                                      14.8 fc 1.4 fc                                                                                                                                                                      2.55
                                                                  House Side Shield
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FRONT LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.8 fc                                                                             8.4 fc                                                                       0.9 fc                                                                                          2.21
                      5    POWERSECURE       GL2-14-3M-750-STD-     3569-47                                1                   10889                                           1                                                                         0.6                                                               255.32                                                                      100%
            D              dba               HSS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FRONT LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.8 fc                                                                             7.8 fc                                                                       0.6 fc                                                                                          2.79
                           ENERGYLITE
                      6    ENERGYLITE        GL4-30-5Q-750-STD-0- GL4, 30k lumens, type 5Q, 70             1                   31333                                           1                                                                         0.6                                                                     563.4                                                                 100%                                                                                      FRONT LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.2 fc                                                                             8.2 fc                                                                       1.1 fc                                                                                          2.56
                                             10-0-BZ-ES           CRI 50k
            E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0 fc                                                                             0.1 fc                                                                       0.0 fc                                                                                            N/A
                      4    ENERGYLITE        GL4-30-5Q-750-STD-0- GL4, 30k lumens, type 5Q, 70             1                   31333                                           1                                                                         0.6                                                                     845.1                                                                 100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LINE
            G                                10-0-BZ-ES           CRI 50k,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.4 fc                                                                      14.8 fc 0.0 fc                                                                                                                                                                      4.35
                      0    ENERGYLITE        GL2-14-2M-750-STD-0- GL2, 14k lumens, type 2M, 70             1                   12287                                           1                                                                         0.6                                                               127.04                                                                      100%
                                             10-0-BZ-ES-HS        CRI 50k, HOUSESIDE SHIELD
            I
                      6    ENERGYLITE        GL2-14-2M-750-STD-0- GL2, 14k lumens, type 2M, 70             1                   12287                                           1                                                                         0.6                                                               127.04                                                                      100%
                                             10-0-BZ-ES-HS        CRI 50k
            J
                     12    Solais Lighting   GL1-9-4S-730-STD-HSS GridLite 1 Area/Site/Wallpack            1                        6609                                       1                                                                         0.6                                                                     92.21                                                                 100%
                           Group dba                              Luminaire, 9 Lumen Package,
           M               EnergyLite                             Type IV Short, 3000K 70CRI,
                                                                  House Side Shield




                                                                                                               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.1           0.1           0.1           0.1           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2          0.5          0.6          0.5          0.3           0.2           0.2           0.1           0.1           0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.3         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.4          0.9          1.3          1.2          0.9           0.8           0.7           0.8           0.9           0.5         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.9         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.5         0.7         0.8         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.2         0.9         1.3         1.3         1.4         1.4         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.3         0.9         1.5         1.5         1.7         1.7         1.3         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.4         1.4         1.4         1.4         1.3         1.2         1.1         1.0         1.3         1.4         1.3         1.4         0.8         1.1         1.1         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.3    0.7          1.6          2.8          2.8          2.4           2.9           4.6           6.3           5.6           3.1         1.6         1.3         1.3         2.0         3.9         3.7         1.7         0.9         0.9         0.9         1.8         3.8         3.8         1.9         1.3         1.4         2.7         4.2         3.1         1.6         1.4         1.4         2.1         4.2         6.2         5.5         3.0         1.5         0.9         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.7         0.9         1.2         1.4         1.7         2.0         2.6         3.5         4.4         5.2         7.3         7.8         6.4         4.5         4.2         2.9         2.3         1.9         1.7         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.8         2.0         2.3         2.8         3.9         5.4         7.5         10.3        10.9        8.6         6.2         4.6         3.4         2.8         2.5         2.3         2.3         2.4         2.6         3.1         4.2         4.4         6.1         5.2         7.1         5.2         3.8         3.5         2.5         1.9         1.6         1.3         1.1         1.0         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1



                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.5    1.2          2.3          3.9          4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M @ 10.5'                                                                               C @ 7.9'                                                                            C @ 7.9'                                                              C @ 7.9'                                                                            M @ 10.5'                            1.7         1.2         0.8         0.4         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.5         1.1         1.5         1.8         2.2         2.8         3.7         5.3         7.7         10.2        13.5        14.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D @ 17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12.1        8.8         6.4         4.3         3.3         2.6         2.2         2.1         2.2         2.2         2.4         2.6         3.1         4.0         5.7         8.2         10.9        14.1        14.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D @ 17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12.2        9.1         6.8         5.0         3.9         3.3         3.0         3.0         3.2         3.7         4.7         6.6         9.0         12.2        14.7        14.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D @ 17'10.6        7.7         5.4         3.8         2.8         2.1         1.7         1.4         1.2         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.2         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.1           5.9           7.5           7.8           6.8           4.1         2.8         2.6         2.6         3.6         4.7         4.2                     1.9         1.9         2.0         3.2         4.6         4.4         3.0         2.7         3.0         4.3         4.9         3.9         2.8         2.7         2.8         3.8         6.2         7.0         6.4         3.9         2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.3    0.9    1.8          3.1          4.4          5.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.0         1.4         1.0         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.7         1.0         1.4         1.8         2.2         2.7         3.4         4.5         5.8         8.0         10.3        13.1        14.0        12.0        9.2         6.8         5.1         4.0         3.1         2.6         2.5         2.6         2.7         2.9         3.2         3.8         4.9         6.3         8.6         11.1        13.9        14.5        12.4        9.8         7.5         6.0         4.9         4.1         3.8         3.8         4.1         4.7         5.8         7.4         9.8         12.3        14.5        13.8        11.0        8.4         6.1         4.7         3.4         2.5         2.0         1.7         1.5         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.7         0.5         0.3         0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.3           6.3           6.2           5.4           4.4           3.4         2.7         2.6         2.4         2.1         2.0         1.9         1.7         1.8         1.9         1.7         1.8         2.0         2.1         2.3         2.5         2.4         2.3         2.3         2.3         2.6         2.8         2.8         3.2         3.7         3.8         3.8         3.4         2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.3    0.5    1.4    2.7          4.0          4.0          6.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.5         2.3         2.6         1.7         1.3         1.3         1.7         2.2         3.6         3.9         3.6         3.7         3.8         4.1         5.0         6.5         7.7         9.2         9.7         8.6         7.0         5.5         4.0         3.5         3.1         3.0         2.9         3.0         3.3         3.4         3.6         3.8         4.4         5.6         7.2         8.6         10.2        10.5        9.4         8.1         6.8         5.6         5.0         4.7         4.6         4.6         4.6         4.8         5.4         6.8         8.2         9.7         10.9        10.4        8.7         7.2         5.4         4.1         3.2         2.7         2.2         2.0         1.8         1.7         1.5         1.2         1.0         0.7         0.4         0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.8           6.3           5.6           4.4           2.9           2.2         1.9         1.9         1.6         1.4         1.2         1.1         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.5         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.9         2.2         2.2         2.3         2.6         2.9         3.1         3.3         4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                              0.0    0.1    0.2    0.5    1.0    2.1    3.5          4.7          5.9          8.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.9         9.6         7.5         4.3         2.9         2.7         3.3         5.9         9.4         9.7         6.9         4.6         3.9         3.8         3.8         4.1         4.0         4.3         4.3         4.1         3.8         3.3         2.7         2.3         2.6         2.7         3.1         3.4         3.6         3.6         3.6         3.7         4.0         4.5         5.2         5.5         6.0         6.1         5.9         5.8         5.6         5.3         5.2         5.2         5.1         4.9         4.8         4.7         4.9         5.4         5.7         5.9         6.1         6.0         5.5         5.0         4.1         3.3         2.7         2.3         2.1         2.0         2.0         2.1         2.0         1.6         1.3         0.9         0.5         0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.8           5.7           4.3           2.9           1.9           1.4         1.2         1.1         0.9         0.8         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8         1.0         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.6         1.8         2.0         2.3         2.8         3.2         3.6         4.1         6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M @ 10.5'                                                                             M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                              0.0    0.1    0.3    0.6    1.3    2.7    4.1          5.2          6.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7.7         9.0         8.0         5.3         4.1         3.6         4.4         6.4         8.7         8.9         7.1         5.1         4.0         3.5         3.1         2.9         2.6         2.7         2.7         2.6         2.4         2.1         1.7         1.6         2.1         2.5         2.9         3.4         3.6         3.7         3.8         4.0         4.1         4.3         4.7         5.1         5.4         5.5         5.5         5.5         5.5         5.7         6.0         6.1         5.8         5.4         5.0         4.8         4.9         5.2         5.2         5.2         5.2         5.2         5.0         4.5         3.6         2.8         2.2         1.9         1.8         1.8         2.0         2.3         2.6         2.2         1.7         1.2         0.6         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                              0.0    0.1    0.2    0.5    1.0    1.8    3.3                                                 6.0           4.6           2.9           1.6           0.9           0.7         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.8         1.0         1.2         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.9         2.1         2.2         2.4         2.7         2.9         3.4         4.1         4.4         4.9         5.6         6.3         6.4         6.0         5.0         4.3         4.0         4.2         4.7         5.5         5.7         5.4         4.7         3.9         3.2         2.5         1.6         1.6         1.6         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.2         1.0         1.0         1.8         2.3         2.8         3.4         3.6         3.9         4.2         4.4         4.6         4.8         5.1         5.3         5.5         5.6         5.7         5.9         6.1         6.5         7.1         7.3         6.9         6.3         5.8         5.4         5.3         5.4         5.4         5.4         5.4         5.2         5.0         4.4         3.4         2.5         1.9         1.6         1.5         1.6         2.0         2.5         3.1         2.9         2.3         1.5         0.7         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                              4.0          5.8          6.5          6.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                              0.0    0.1    0.1    0.3    0.5    1.0    3.1                                                               3.7           2.0           0.9           0.5           0.5         0.6         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.9         0.7         0.4         0.4         0.6         1.2         1.5         2.0         2.6         2.8         2.7         3.0         3.2         3.2         3.7         4.1         4.3         4.7         5.4         5.6         5.9         6.1         6.0         5.4         5.0         4.4         4.1         3.8         3.6         3.3         3.4         3.6         3.8         3.9         3.6         3.0         2.1         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.6         1.7         2.2         2.8         3.3         3.6         4.1         4.6         5.2         5.6         5.7         5.5         5.6         5.8         5.9         6.0         6.3         7.0         8.0         8.4         8.5         8.3         7.5         6.6         6.2         6.0         5.9         5.7         5.7         5.7         5.8         5.3         4.4         3.4         2.4         1.7         1.3         1.3         1.6         2.1         2.9         3.8         4.0         3.1         1.9         0.7         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                              4.8          6.7          6.5          6.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                              0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.5    3.2                                                               3.1           1.4           0.7           0.6           0.8         0.9         1.1         1.3         1.5         1.6         2.0         1.7         1.1         0.5         0.4         0.6         1.1         1.7         3.2         5.5         5.7         3.8         3.2         3.5         4.5         6.5         7.5         6.2         5.4         5.8         6.3         8.4         9.2         7.7         5.6         4.7         4.0         3.4         3.1         2.7         2.7         2.8         3.1         3.3         3.4         3.4         2.9         2.0         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         1.7         2.5         3.2         3.5         3.8         4.3         4.9         5.9         6.5         6.6         6.4         6.2         6.4         6.5         6.6         7.2         8.1         8.9         9.3         9.4         9.1         8.4         7.5         6.8         6.4         6.3         6.1         6.2         6.4         6.4         6.0         4.7         3.3         2.3         1.5         1.1         1.1         1.6         2.3         3.6         5.0         5.7         4.5         2.5         0.5         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                              6.3          8.4          6.8          5.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.2    1.7                                                               2.4           1.2           0.6           0.7           1.2         1.9         2.2         2.4         2.7         2.9         3.4         2.8         1.4         0.6         0.3         0.5         1.0         1.5         3.2         6.5         7.1         3.8         2.9         3.4         4.6         8.3         9.7         6.8         5.7         6.0         6.5         9.5         9.2         8.1         5.2         4.4         3.7         3.1         2.6         2.3         2.1         2.1         2.5         2.9         3.2         3.4         2.9         2.0         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         1.9         2.8         3.6         3.7         4.0         4.3         4.9         5.9         6.8         7.0         6.9         6.7         6.8         6.9         7.1         7.7         8.6         9.2         9.3         9.2         9.1         8.7         7.8         7.0         6.5         6.5         6.3         6.5         6.8         6.8         6.0         4.6         3.2         2.2         1.4         1.0         1.1         1.8         2.8         4.4         7.0         8.0         6.6         3.0         0.5         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                           8.4          6.5          4.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AUTONATION DRAPER UT SITE LAYOUT
                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                          M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                           6.5          5.6          4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.1           1.1           0.6           0.7           1.3         2.6         3.2         3.4         3.9         4.2         4.4         3.1         1.5         0.6         0.3         0.3         0.6         0.9         1.5         1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.9         1.9         2.2         2.6         3.3         4.0         4.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.0         5.4         5.8         5.9         6.1         5.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.4         4.7         4.2         3.6         3.0         2.5         2.1         1.7         1.7         2.2         2.7         3.3         3.6         3.2         2.1                                                                                                                     2.0         3.4         4.1         4.1         4.0         4.2         4.8         5.5         6.4         6.8         6.8         6.7         6.9         7.0         7.2         7.7         8.4         8.7         8.9         8.9         8.6         8.2         7.6         6.9         6.6         6.6         6.4         6.4         6.6         6.4         5.6         4.5         3.1         2.0         1.4         1.0         1.2         2.0         3.0         5.0         8.9         10.4        9.6         2.4         0.7         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    1.1                                                               1.8           1.0           0.6           0.5           1.1         2.1         3.1         3.9         5.0         5.3         4.6         3.5         1.8         0.7         0.3         0.3         0.5         1.1         1.7         1.9         1.9         2.0         2.3         2.9         3.6         4.4         4.9         5.3         5.9         6.2         6.3         6.4         6.1         5.6         5.1         4.7         4.1         3.3         2.7         2.1         1.7         1.7         2.1         2.7         3.7         4.3         3.9         2.3                                                                                                                     2.2         4.0         4.8         4.6         4.2         4.5         4.9         5.4         6.0         6.3         6.7         7.4         8.2         8.4         8.1         7.9         8.1         8.6         8.9         8.9         8.6         7.8         7.3         7.3         7.8         7.9         7.4         6.6         6.2         6.0         5.5         4.5         3.3         2.2         1.4         1.0         1.3         2.1         3.2         5.7         11.0        13.3        13.2        4.7         0.8         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                           4.0          4.1          3.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.6          2.0                                                  1.7           1.0           0.5           0.5           1.0         2.0         3.1         2.1         1.3         6.7         4.9         3.8         2.2         1.0         0.5         0.3         0.5         1.0         2.3         3.1         2.9         2.5         2.6         3.4         4.4         5.1         5.7         6.1         6.4         6.8         6.9         6.9         6.6         6.2         5.9         5.3         4.7         3.9         2.9         2.3         1.9         1.8         2.3         2.9         4.2         4.8         4.3         2.4                                                                                                                     2.3         4.5         5.3         5.0         4.4         4.5         5.0         5.6         6.2         5.3         6.7         8.3         9.3         9.5         9.1         7.9         7.2         8.8         9.2         9.1         8.7         6.9         6.4         7.8         8.6         8.6         8.2         6.7         5.3         5.2         5.6         4.6         3.3         2.2         1.4         1.0         1.3         2.1         3.2         5.8         11.7        14.4        14.5        6.8         0.9         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                           2.9          3.8          3.5           2.3


                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3          2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                           4.2          5.7          3.8           2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.9           0.9           0.5           0.5           1.0         1.9         3.0         3.8         4.9         A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.1         4.8         4.0         2.5         1.3         0.6         0.5         0.5         1.0         2.7         4.4         4.9         3.4         3.1         4.1         5.0         5.7         6.2         6.6         6.6         6.9         7.0         7.0         6.7         6.6         6.4         5.9         5.2         4.3         3.4         2.6         2.2         2.1         2.5         3.1         4.3         5.0         4.5         2.5                                                                                                                     2.3         4.4         5.2         5.0         4.3         4.4         4.8         5.5         6.1         5.4         6.6         6.9         9.0         9.7         7.8         7.8         7.3         8.6         8.9         8.8         8.5         7.8         6.7         6.7         8.1         8.5         7.3         5.6         6.4         6.1         5.6         4.5         3.3         2.2         1.4         1.0         1.3         2.2         3.3         5.5         10.3        12.3        11.8        4.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D @ 17'0.8         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1



                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2          2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                           5.1          7.0          3.7           2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9           0.5           0.5           0.9         1.8         3.1         3.8         4.0         4.4         4.5         4.4         3.3         1.8         0.9         0.6         0.6         1.0         3.0         6.2         8.8         5.7         4.0         4.9         5.5         6.1         6.6         6.7         6.7         6.8         6.9         6.8         6.7         6.8         6.6         6.3         5.6         4.8         4.0         3.1         2.7         2.6         2.9         3.3         4.3         4.9         4.5         2.5        J @ 25'                                                                                                      2.3         4.2  J @ 25'5.0         4.8         4.3         4.6         5.1         5.7         6.2         6.3         7.2         8.4         9.5         9.9        E @ 17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9.4         8.4         8.2         8.7         9.1         9.1         8.7         7.9         7.2         7.5         8.2         8.3         7.8  E @ 17'6.8         6.2         6.0         5.6         4.7         3.4         2.3         1.5         1.1         1.3         2.1         3.2         5.0         8.4         9.6         8.3         2.8         0.9         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                       C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1          1.2                                                                0.9           0.6           0.5           1.0         2.2         3.5         3.8         3.8         4.0         3.9         4.2         3.6         2.1         1.1         0.6         0.6         1.0         2.9         7.3                     11.9        5.0         6.0         6.0         6.3         5.9         6.7         6.9         7.0         7.3         7.2         6.9         6.8         6.0         6.4         6.0         5.3         4.6         3.8         3.3         3.2         3.4         3.7         4.4         4.7         4.3         2.4                                                                                                                     2.1         3.5         4.3         4.3         4.1         4.4         4.9         5.6         6.4         6.7         7.3         7.8         8.5         8.8         8.5         8.3         8.4         8.6         8.7         8.7         8.5         7.9         7.3         6.9         6.9         6.9         6.6         6.3         6.4         6.2         5.6         4.5         3.2         2.2         1.5         1.1         1.3         2.0         3.0         4.5         6.6         7.5         6.0         3.3         0.7         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.2          3.4           2.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1          0.4                                                                1.0           0.6           0.6           1.1         2.2         3.4         3.8         3.7         4.0         4.1         4.3         3.8         2.4         1.1         0.6         0.6         0.9         2.5         7.8                     13.5        5.8         6.2         6.5         6.7         6.0         6.0         6.6         8.0         8.5         8.3         7.6         5.4         5.9         6.0         6.4         5.8         5.0         4.3         3.9         4.2         4.6         4.8         5.1         5.2         3.3         2.3                                                                                                                     2.0         3.0         3.8         3.9         4.0         4.3         5.1         6.2         7.2         7.7         8.1         8.1         8.4         8.6         8.5         8.7         8.9         9.0         9.0         8.9         8.8         8.4         7.5         6.8         6.5         6.4         6.3         6.5         6.8         6.7         5.9         4.7         3.3         2.2         1.5         1.2         1.3         1.8         2.7         3.8         5.1         5.7         4.4         2.7         0.9         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.8          2.8           2.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.3                                                                1.0           0.7           0.6           1.0         1.7         3.0         3.8         3.9         4.2         4.5         4.8         3.8         2.1         1.0         0.6         0.6         1.0         2.2         6.3         9.5         9.3         5.4         5.9         6.5         6.7         6.8         7.1         7.2         7.5         9.1         9.1         7.8         7.3         6.8         6.8         6.6         6.1         5.3         4.6         4.5         5.4         6.0         5.9         6.2         6.1         3.1         2.1                                                                                                                     1.8         2.7         3.6         3.8         4.0         4.6         5.7         7.2         8.3         8.7         8.0         8.5         9.0         9.1         8.9         9.0         9.1         9.3         9.3         9.2         8.9         8.3         7.5         6.7         6.4         6.4         6.2         6.4         6.7         6.7         6.1         4.8         3.4         2.3         1.6         1.3         1.4         1.8         2.6         3.6         4.4         4.4         3.6         2.3         1.0         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.2          2.7           2.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.1                                                                1.2           0.9           0.8           0.8         1.3         2.2         3.2         3.9         4.8         5.5         4.8         3.9         2.3         1.1         0.5         0.6         1.0         2.1         4.9         6.8         6.7         5.6         5.8         6.5         6.7         6.7         7.1         8.2         9.1         9.1         9.1         8.6         7.4         6.8         6.8         6.6         6.1         5.3         4.5         4.5         5.5         6.7         7.1         7.4         5.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.5         9.2         9.2         8.9         8.5         8.5         8.7         8.8         8.7         8.4         7.6         6.8         6.2         5.9         5.9         5.8         5.8         5.9         6.0         5.5         4.6         3.5         2.4         1.7         1.4         1.5         1.9         2.6         3.5         4.1         3.7         3.0         2.1         1.1         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.8          3.3           2.3           1.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.1          2.3                                                   1.6           1.3           1.2           0.9         1.1         1.9         3.0         1.4         1.6         6.9         5.0         4.2         2.6         1.3         0.6         0.6         1.0         2.1         4.4         5.9         5.9         5.8         5.9         6.5         6.8         6.9         7.1         8.0         8.9         8.4         9.0         8.4         7.3         7.0         7.0         6.8         6.2         5.3         4.5         4.4         5.4         6.7         7.6         9.4         5.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.1         9.1         9.0         8.3         7.8         7.5         7.7         7.7         7.8         7.3         6.5         5.8         5.3         5.1         5.0         4.9         4.8         4.8         4.7         4.4         3.9         3.1         2.3         1.6         1.4         1.5         2.0         2.7         3.4         3.9         3.5         2.9         2.0         1.1         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.3          5.4           2.7           1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G @ 20'
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.1          1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.3          5.8           2.6           2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.8           1.5           1.0         1.1         1.8         2.8         3.6         4.8         5.2  A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4.9         4.3         2.8         1.5         0.8         0.7         0.9         1.9         4.1         5.9         6.0         6.0         5.9         6.6         7.1         7.1         7.0         7.3         8.0         7.6         8.2         7.5         7.1         7.1         7.2         6.9         6.2         5.3         4.4         4.3         5.4         6.8         8.0         9.7         4.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.9         9.2         9.1         8.3         7.3         6.8         6.6         6.8         6.8         6.2         5.5         5.0         4.6         4.3         4.3         4.1         3.8         3.6         3.5         3.3         3.1         2.5         1.9         1.6         1.4         1.6         2.1         2.7         3.5         4.1         3.7         3.0         2.1         1.1         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1



                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.1          1.0          C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.4           2.3           2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.1           2.1           1.3         1.1         1.7         2.9         3.7         3.9         4.3         4.4         4.4         3.5         2.0         1.0         0.7         0.9         1.7         3.7         5.9         6.4         6.2         5.8         6.4         7.0         7.2         7.0         6.9         7.3         6.6         7.4         7.1         7.1         7.3         7.2         6.7         6.0         5.1         4.3         4.3         5.2         6.4         7.0         6.5        A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.2         8.6         8.6         7.9         6.9         6.3         6.1         6.0         5.9         5.4         4.9         4.4         3.8         3.5         3.4         3.2         2.9         2.7         2.5         2.3         2.2         1.9         1.6         1.4         1.4         1.6         2.1         2.8         3.6         4.4         4.3         3.5         2.3         1.0         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J @ 25'
                                                                                                                                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.5                                                                 5.8           2.7           1.6         1.3         2.0         3.3         3.6         3.6         3.9         3.8         4.0         3.6         2.2         1.2         0.8         0.8         1.4         2.9         6.0         8.1         7.6         5.5         6.3         6.9         7.1         7.0         7.1         7.2         6.4         6.5         7.3         7.2         7.3         7.1         6.5         5.6         4.6         4.0         4.2         5.1         6.0         5.9         4.8         4.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.7         8.1         8.2         7.5         6.7         6.3         6.2         6.1         5.8         5.2         4.5         3.9         3.4         3.1         2.8         2.5         2.2         1.9         1.7         1.5         1.6         1.5         1.3         1.3         1.4         1.7         2.2         2.9         4.0         5.1         5.6         4.4         2.6         0.9         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6           1.6           3.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.2                                                                 6.4           3.0           1.7         1.5         2.1         3.1         3.6         3.5         3.8         3.8         4.1         3.7         2.4         1.1         0.7         0.7         1.1         2.3         6.2         10.8        13.0        6.1         6.2         6.6         6.7         7.0         7.3         7.4         6.7         6.8         7.5         7.4         7.2         6.8         6.1         5.2         4.2         3.7         3.7         4.4         4.5         4.1         3.3         3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.6         6.9         7.2         6.8         6.3         6.1         6.1         5.9         5.6         5.0         4.1         3.5         2.9         2.4         2.1         1.8         1.5         1.3         1.1         1.0         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.7         2.4         3.3         4.7         6.6         7.5         6.0         3.3         0.6         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1           1.2           2.7           7.1


                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9           1.1           1.5           3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.9           2.6           1.6         1.4         1.9         3.2         3.7         3.7         4.1         4.3         4.7         3.9         2.2         1.1         0.6         0.6         0.8         1.6         5.9                                 6.0         5.5         6.0         6.2         6.8         7.2         7.4         7.5         7.6         7.6         7.5         7.0         6.4         5.7         4.8         4.0         3.6         3.4         3.3         3.2         2.4         2.3         2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.6         5.7         5.9         5.7         5.4         5.2         5.1         4.9         4.5         4.0         3.2         2.7         2.2         1.7         1.4         1.2         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.6         1.0         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.9         2.6         3.5         5.2         8.4         9.6         8.4         2.7         0.8         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1



                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1          0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1           1.4           1.4           1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.0           1.8           1.5         1.1         1.4         2.3         3.3         3.9         4.5         5.1         4.8         3.9         2.4         1.2         0.6         0.5         0.7         1.3         4.5         8.0         11.7       B @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.0         4.4         5.1         5.8         6.5         6.9         7.3         7.5         7.7         7.6         7.5         7.0         6.1         5.2         4.4         3.8         3.4         3.3         3.2         3.0         2.4         2.3         2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.5         5.1         4.7         4.6         4.3         3.4         2.9         2.7         2.5         2.4         2.0         1.7         1.5         1.1         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.4         1.0         1.2         1.4         1.6         2.0         2.7         3.6         5.7         10.3        12.2        11.9        4.2         0.8         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1



                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1          0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.5           1.9           1.6           1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4           1.2         0.9         1.2         2.0         3.1         2.7         5.4         7.0         5.4         4.3         2.8         1.4         0.7         0.6         0.7         1.2         3.3         6.0         6.8         4.6         3.7         4.4         5.4         6.1         6.7         7.1         7.3         7.6         7.6         7.4         6.9         5.9         5.1         4.4         3.7         3.4         3.5         4.2         4.2         3.4         3.3         3.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J @ 25'                                                                                                                                                      0.9         1.2         1.5         1.7         2.0         2.7         3.6         6.0         11.7        14.3        14.5        6.8         0.9         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1          1.6                                                                  1.0           0.8         0.8         1.1         1.9         3.1         2.7         5.5         6.2         5.3         4.7         3.3         1.9         1.0         0.6         0.7         1.1         2.6         4.3         4.6         3.9         3.5         4.2         5.0         5.7         6.4         6.9         7.3         7.6         7.6         7.4         7.0         6.2         5.2         4.4         3.8         3.5         3.7         4.7         5.3         5.0         4.9         4.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0         1.4         1.7         1.8         2.0         2.6         3.5         5.8         11.1        13.4        13.2        4.7         0.8         0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D @ 17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.4           3.8           2.3           1.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1          2.5                                                                  1.0           0.7         0.7         1.0         2.0         3.4         4.4         5.0         5.5         5.6         5.8         4.7         2.6         1.2         0.7         0.7         1.1         2.5         4.0         3.9         3.6         3.6         4.1         5.0         5.8         6.5         6.9         7.4         7.8         7.9         7.8         7.3         6.6         5.7         4.9         4.2         3.7         3.9         4.8         5.6         6.0         6.7         5.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2         1.7         2.0         1.9         2.0         2.5         3.2         5.1         8.9         10.4        9.5         2.4         0.8         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.0           3.0           2.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1          2.1                                                                  1.3           0.8         0.7         1.1         2.3         4.1         5.1         5.0         5.4         5.5         6.0         5.4         3.2         1.4         0.7         0.7         1.1         2.5         3.9         4.1         3.7         3.6         4.2         5.2         6.1         6.8         7.2         7.6         8.0         8.1         8.1         7.6         6.9         6.2         5.5         4.7         4.1         4.1         5.0         6.2         7.0         8.3         4.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.7         2.2         2.4         2.1         2.1         2.4         3.0         4.5         7.0         8.0         6.6         3.0         0.6         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.7           3.6           2.4           1.8



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1          0.8                                                                  1.6           1.0         0.7         1.0         2.0         3.9         4.9         4.9         5.2         5.5         5.7         4.8         3.0         1.5         0.8         0.6         1.0         2.2         4.0         4.7         4.5         3.7         4.4         5.5         6.3         7.0         7.3         7.6         7.9         8.0         8.0         7.6         7.1         6.7         6.0         5.3         4.7         4.5         5.2         6.2         6.5         7.9         6.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.1         2.8         2.9         2.7         2.5         2.4         2.7         3.6         5.0         5.8         4.5         2.5         0.5         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.4           2.8           2.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1          0.4          1.9                                                     1.7           1.1         0.8         0.8         1.4         2.6         3.6         4.3         5.1         5.9         5.2         4.5         2.9         1.5         0.7         0.6         0.9         1.8         4.2         6.6         7.2         4.2         4.9         5.8         6.6         7.0         7.3         7.3         7.6         7.7         7.7         7.4         7.2         6.9         6.4         5.7         5.0         5.0         5.5         6.3         6.1         6.0         5.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.5         3.5         3.4         3.2         2.8         2.4         2.5         3.0         3.8         4.1         3.2         1.9         0.6         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.6           3.6           3.4           2.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1          0.2          2.0                                                                   1.2         0.8         0.7         1.0         1.9         3.0         1.5         2.3         6.8         5.4         4.5         2.9         1.5         0.8         0.6         0.9         1.6         4.2         7.5         13.0        6.2         5.8         6.5         6.7         7.1         7.2         7.1         7.1         7.3         7.3         7.1         7.1         7.0         6.6         6.0         5.5         5.4         5.8         5.7         5.0         4.7         4.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.0         4.1         4.1         3.6         3.2         2.8         2.7         2.8         3.1         2.8         2.2         1.4         0.6         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.6           5.1           4.2           2.7


                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1          0.3          2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.5           7.6           5.5           3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.4         0.8         0.6         0.8         1.5         2.6         3.4         4.4         5.3    A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.8         4.5         3.1         1.6         0.8         0.7         0.9         1.5         4.3         10.0                    11.8        6.4         6.9         6.8         6.2         6.3         7.2         7.5         7.9         7.6         7.3         7.1         6.2         6.7         6.5         6.1         5.8         5.4         4.7         3.9         3.5         3.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.5         4.8         4.7         4.0         3.6         3.3         3.0         2.9         2.6         2.0         1.6         1.1         0.6         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0



                                                                                                                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0          0.1          0.2          1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.2           5.9           3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.5         0.9         0.7         0.7         1.4         2.4         3.4         3.7         4.0         4.0         4.1         3.2         1.8         0.9         0.8         1.0         1.5         3.6         8.3         12.7        10.6 B @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.2         6.7         7.0         6.3         6.2         6.9         8.4         8.9         8.7         7.6         6.4         6.2         6.2         6.8         6.5         6.1         5.4         4.4         3.7         3.3         3.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.6         4.8         4.9         4.2         3.7         3.6         3.3         2.9         2.2         1.5         1.2         0.9         0.5         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0



                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0          0.1          0.2          0.5          2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.4           5.2           3.4           2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.8         1.3         1.0         0.9         1.4         2.5         3.0         2.9         2.9         2.8         2.7         2.5         1.6         1.0         0.8         1.0         1.6         3.1         6.7         8.8         8.1         6.2         6.7         6.9         6.9         7.2         7.8         7.7         9.2         8.5         8.0         7.5         7.0         7.0         6.9         6.7         6.4         6.2         5.3         4.4         4.0         3.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         J @ 25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.7         4.8         4.3         4.0         4.3         4.5         4.0         2.3         1.2         1.0         0.7         0.4         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.0          0.1          0.4          0.8          2.0                                                                   2.4         2.1         1.8         1.5         1.5         2.0         2.2         2.0         2.1         2.2         2.0         1.7         1.5         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.8         2.9         5.1         6.6         6.8         6.4         6.5         6.8         6.8         7.1         8.3         9.2         9.3         9.2         8.7         7.5         6.9         6.9         6.9         6.6         6.5         6.9         6.7         5.6         5.2         4.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.9         4.0         4.2         4.2         4.0         5.1         6.8         6.6         2.5         0.9         0.7         0.5         0.3         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.4           4.2           3.6           2.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.1          0.1          0.4          1.0          2.4           3.7                                                     3.5         3.6         2.8         2.3         2.1         2.2         2.0         2.0         2.2         2.4         2.5         2.3         2.0         1.9         2.0         2.3         2.6         3.2         4.5         5.7         6.1         6.4         6.7         7.0         7.0         7.2         7.9         8.8         8.2         9.1         8.4         7.4         7.1         7.2         7.0         6.6         6.5         6.9         7.3         6.7         6.1         5.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.4         3.4         3.7         4.0         4.1         5.5         8.2         9.2         2.3         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.2         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.2           4.2           3.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.1          0.1          0.4          1.0          2.5           4.0           4.5           4.7           4.5           4.5         4.1         3.6         3.6         3.3         3.2         3.2         3.1         3.4         3.4         3.6         3.7         3.4         3.5         3.5         3.8         3.7         3.4         4.1         4.8         5.3         6.0         6.8         7.3         7.5         7.8         8.7         9.6         8.3         8.6         7.8         7.4         7.3         7.3         7.2         6.7         6.5         6.9         7.3         7.3         7.9         5.8         3.3         3.4         2.2         2.1         2.7         4.2         6.2         7.6         7.6         5.3         3.6         2.0         1.1         0.9         1.6         2.9         4.6         6.4         5.2         7.3         5.7         4.2         3.6         3.4         3.7         3.6         3.7         4.1         4.1         4.4         3.7         3.0         2.2         1.7         1.4         1.0         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         2.2         2.9         3.4         3.8         4.2         5.5         7.9         8.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.6         0.6         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.1          0.1          0.4          1.1          2.3           3.7           4.7           3.2           5.2           4.6         4.0         3.8         4.2         4.6         4.5         4.6         4.5         4.4         3.8         3.9         4.6         4.7         5.0         4.8         4.8         4.1         3.4         3.4         4.0         4.7         5.6         6.6         7.6         8.2         9.5         12.8        13.9        10.0        8.8         8.2         7.7         7.7         7.6         7.0         6.6         6.4         6.7         7.3         7.3         7.8         5.2         3.1         3.1         2.1         2.1         2.9         4.3         5.6         7.9         7.2         5.1         3.6         2.1         1.1         0.9         1.7         3.0         4.6         6.1         8.1         7.3         5.6         4.4         3.7         4.2         5.0         5.2         5.7         6.4         7.0         7.2         6.0         4.4         3.3         2.5         2.0         1.5         1.2         1.0         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.5         1.3         2.0         2.6         3.2         3.6         4.1         5.0         5.6         4.6         1.8         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                 0.0    0.1          0.1          0.4          1.2          2.4           3.8           5.0           6.9           6.4           4.7         4.1         3.7         4.0         4.7         5.2         5.4         4.8         4.2         3.7         3.8         4.4         5.0         6.4         5.4         4.7         3.7         3.0         2.9         3.3         4.0         5.1         6.3         7.5         8.3         9.3         9.7         11.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9.3         8.2         8.6         8.1         7.8         7.6         7.1         6.4         6.0         6.5         7.1         6.6         5.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.9         4.1         3.1         2.0         1.9         2.8         4.3         5.2         5.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.3         5.0         3.7         2.1         1.2         0.9         1.7         3.0         4.6         5.5         6.2        A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.0         5.7         4.6         4.0         4.4         5.5         6.4         5.9         7.7         8.2         7.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J @ 25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.5         4.9         3.7         3.1         2.4         1.9         1.6         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.7         0.6         1.2         1.7         2.3         3.0         3.5         4.2         4.4         3.9         2.9         1.4         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                        0.1          0.1          0.4          1.2          2.4           3.8           4.8           6.1           5.7           4.8         4.1         3.7         4.0         4.6         6.3         6.7         4.8         4.2         3.8         3.9         4.3         5.3         6.4         5.8         4.6         3.7         2.9         2.7         3.2         4.1         5.2         6.1         7.1         7.8         8.3         8.9         9.1         8.3         8.9         8.9         8.4         7.9         7.5         6.9         6.3         5.9         6.4         6.4         5.4         4.9         4.1         3.9         3.3         2.1         2.0         2.9         4.1         4.3         4.5         4.4         4.4         3.8         2.4         1.3         1.2         1.8         3.3         4.7         5.0         5.4         5.3         5.6         5.0         4.6         4.7         5.8         6.8         8.9         9.0         8.0         7.2         5.9         4.4         3.5         2.9         2.4         2.1         1.9         1.7         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.8         1.3         1.7         2.3         3.1         3.8         4.4         4.2         3.6         2.4         1.1         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                        0.1          0.1          0.4          1.2          2.6           4.1           4.6           4.9           4.8           4.9         4.4         3.9         3.9         4.3         4.9         4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4.5         4.1         3.8         3.8         4.1         4.5         1.8        A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.8         4.4         3.8         3.3         3.4         5.8         10.0        9.4         7.0         6.7         7.1         7.6         8.1         8.4         8.4         8.6         8.7         8.6         8.0         7.4         6.9         6.2         5.8         5.7         5.1         4.2         3.7         3.1         2.9         2.6         2.0         1.9         2.3         2.8         2.7         2.9         2.9         2.8         3.0         2.1         1.5         1.4         1.9         3.0         3.6         3.7         3.9         4.0         4.3         4.5         4.3         4.8         5.9         7.1         9.3         8.8         7.3         6.2         4.8         3.7         3.0         2.7         2.2         2.0         1.9         1.8         1.6         1.4         1.2         1.1         1.5         1.9         2.6         3.4         4.2         5.0         4.5         3.4         2.1         0.9         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0



                                                                                                                                                                        0.1          0.2          0.5          1.2          2.7           3.6           3.6           3.8           3.8           4.1         4.4         4.4         4.6         4.6         4.1         3.2         4.5         4.9         4.5         4.4         4.6         4.4         4.5         4.6         4.9         4.5         3.9         4.1         6.0         8.5        C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8.6         6.8         6.5         6.8         7.2         7.6         7.9         8.0         8.1         8.4         8.4         8.1         7.3         6.8         6.2         5.6         4.9         4.1         3.5         2.9         2.3         1.9         1.7         1.6         1.4         1.4         1.4         1.4         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.6         1.7         1.9         2.3         2.5         2.7         2.6         2.9         3.0         3.2         3.6         4.6         6.0         7.0         7.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.0         6.9         5.7         4.2         3.1         2.6         2.4         2.1         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.6         1.6         1.6         1.5         1.9         2.3         3.0         3.8         5.1         6.3         5.8         3.6         1.8         0.6         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                        0.1          0.2          0.5          1.1          2.0           2.8           3.0           3.0           3.3           3.7         4.5         5.4         5.8         4.8         4.3         4.5         5.1         6.0         6.0         5.3         4.9         4.8         5.1         5.6         5.4         5.4         4.7         4.7         5.7         6.6         6.8         6.4         6.6         7.1         7.5         7.9         7.9         7.7         7.8         8.3         8.4         8.3         7.6         7.1         6.4         5.7         4.8         4.0         3.3         2.7         2.1         1.6         1.3         1.1         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.8         0.9         1.1         1.3         1.6         1.8         1.9         2.0         2.0         2.1         2.2         2.3         2.2         2.4         2.6         2.7         3.3         4.6         5.8         5.9         6.0         5.8         5.7         5.1         4.0         2.8         2.4         2.2         2.0         1.8         1.9         1.9         1.8         1.9         1.9         2.1         2.4         2.9         3.7         4.6         6.3         8.8         8.3         3.8         1.2         0.5         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                        0.0          0.2          0.4          0.8          1.6           2.9           3.7           3.7           4.0           4.4         5.5         6.8         6.5         5.3         5.0         4.9         5.6         6.8         6.8         5.9         5.5         5.4         6.2         7.0         6.4         5.6         5.5         5.4         6.2         7.2         7.1         6.8         7.2         7.8         8.3         8.6         8.1         7.7         7.7         8.2         8.4         8.4         8.0         7.6         6.9         6.0         5.2         4.5         3.7         2.9         2.4         1.8         1.3         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.8         1.0         1.4         1.8         2.2         2.4         2.4         2.5         2.5         2.6         2.7         2.6         2.8         2.9         3.0         3.4         4.1         4.7         4.5         4.4         4.2         4.0         4.1         3.4         3.0         2.6         2.4         2.3         2.2         2.3         2.4         2.3         2.5         2.5         2.7         3.0         3.5         4.2         5.7         7.9         9.7         8.1         2.8         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                        0.0          0.1          0.2          0.6          1.4           2.8           4.4           4.8           5.2           5.5         6.5         7.1         6.9         5.9         5.9         5.6         6.0         6.3         6.5         6.2         5.9         5.9         6.7         7.1         6.8         6.2         6.2         6.0         6.5         6.6         7.1         7.3         8.0         8.6         9.1         8.9         8.1         7.7         7.7         8.1         8.4         8.5         8.2         7.8         7.2         6.4         5.8         5.2         4.3         3.4         2.6         2.0         1.4         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.8         1.2         1.6         2.2         2.6         3.0         3.2         3.2         3.2         3.2         3.3         3.2         3.3         3.4         3.4         3.7         4.0         4.0         3.8         3.4         3.2         2.9         2.9         3.1         3.1         3.1         3.0         3.0         2.9         3.0         3.0         2.9         3.1         3.2         3.4         3.9         4.4         5.0         5.7         6.9         7.9         4.3         1.2         0.8         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.2          0.5          1.5           3.0           4.5           5.5           6.8           6.8         6.7         6.8         6.7         6.4         7.1         6.0         5.8         5.7         5.7         5.8         7.2         6.8         6.3         6.5         6.5         6.6         7.0         6.1         6.1         6.1         6.6         7.2         8.8         9.0         8.8         8.6         8.1         7.7         7.9         8.0         8.2         8.3         8.0         7.8         7.3         6.8         6.4         5.7         4.9         4.0         2.9         2.3         1.7         1.3         0.9         0.7         0.6         0.7         0.9         1.3         1.9         2.5         3.1         3.7         4.1         4.0         3.9         3.8         4.0         3.9         3.9         3.9         3.9         4.2         4.4         4.2         3.7         3.1         2.8         2.5         2.7         3.1         3.3         3.7         3.9         3.7         3.6         3.6         3.7         3.6         3.8         3.9         4.1         4.7         5.3         5.5         5.2         5.1         4.2         2.1         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.2          0.5          1.6           3.3           5.3           6.7           8.4           8.5         7.6         7.9         7.7         7.3         7.5         6.6         6.0         5.9         5.8         5.7         7.2         7.1         6.4         6.7         6.5         7.1         7.4         6.4         6.4         6.4         6.7         7.3         9.5         9.5         8.8         8.6         8.1         7.8         7.7         7.8         7.7         7.7         7.6         7.4         7.1         7.0         6.6         6.1         5.3         4.4         3.4         2.7         2.2         1.7         1.3         1.0         0.9         0.9         1.1         1.5         2.1         2.7         3.5         4.2         4.6         4.7         4.4         4.2         4.4         4.3         4.4         4.3         4.4         4.7         4.8         4.5         3.9         3.2         2.7         2.6         2.7         3.0         3.6         4.2         4.6         4.5         4.3         4.1         4.3         4.2         4.4         4.3         4.7         5.2         5.7         5.6         5.0         3.9         2.8         1.7         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.2          0.5          1.6           3.4           6.0           7.6           5.9          A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.3         8.7         9.2         8.8         7.2         3.3        A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.2         6.5         6.6         6.4         5.8         3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.1         7.0         7.4         6.9         6.3         3.8    A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.3         7.0         7.1         7.2         7.5         6.1        A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.6         9.1         9.0         8.3         7.7         6.8         7.5         7.3         7.4         7.4         7.2         7.0         7.0         6.8         6.3         5.7         4.9         4.1         3.2         2.8         2.4         2.0         1.6         1.5         1.6         1.7         2.1         2.6         3.0         3.7         4.3         4.8         5.0         4.8         4.5         4.5         4.5         4.5         4.4         4.6         5.0         5.0         4.6         3.9         3.2         2.7         2.6         2.6         3.0         3.7         4.4         4.8         4.9         4.7         4.4         4.5         4.5         4.6         4.5         4.9         5.3         5.5         5.3         4.6         3.4         2.2         1.6         1.0         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.2          0.6          1.6           3.7           6.2           7.8           8.4           8.7         9.8         11.1        10.0        7.5         6.5         6.5         7.8         9.1         7.8         6.3         6.1         6.6         8.6         9.4         8.0         6.5         6.4         7.0         8.8         8.9         8.3         7.9         8.2         8.9         10.3        9.9         8.8         7.7         6.6         6.5         7.5         7.8         8.2         7.7         7.3         6.2         6.1         6.6         6.1         5.4         4.6         3.7         3.3         3.3         3.4         2.9         2.9         2.9         3.0         3.5         3.3         3.4         3.7         4.2         4.7         4.8         4.8         4.5         4.5         3.9         3.8         4.5         4.7         4.9         4.8         4.5         3.8         3.3         2.7         2.6         2.6         3.1         3.7         4.4         4.8         4.9         4.8         4.4         4.5         3.9         3.8         4.5         4.9         5.1         5.2         4.8         4.0         3.0         2.0         1.5         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.3          0.7          1.9           4.0           6.2           7.7           8.7           10.7        10.6        10.4        10.6        7.9         6.7         6.6         8.3         9.5         8.0         6.2         6.1         6.7         8.7         9.9         7.7         6.6         6.3         7.1         8.9         9.6         8.5         8.0         8.3         9.4         10.1        10.0        8.6         7.7         6.5         6.5         7.3         8.8         9.0         8.7         7.1         6.2         6.1         6.7         6.4         5.7         4.9         4.0         3.5         4.1         4.6         4.6         4.5         4.5         4.6         4.7         4.0         3.5         3.6         4.1         4.5         4.7         4.6         4.7         5.0         4.4         5.1         4.8         4.6         4.7         4.6         4.3         3.8         3.2         2.8         2.5         2.7         3.1         3.6         4.2         4.6         4.8         4.6         4.6         4.8         4.3         4.8         4.7         4.7         4.8         4.8         4.4         3.6         2.9         2.0         1.4         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.3          0.7          1.8           3.9           6.5           8.2           9.3           11.3        10.3        9.6         9.9         7.8         3.6         6.4         7.0         7.5         6.8         6.0         3.9         6.3         7.1         7.4         6.8         4.3         6.0         6.5         7.3         7.8         7.6         5.9         8.1         8.8         9.0         8.7         8.2         7.6         7.2         7.5         8.5         8.5         9.2         7.7         8.3         7.3         6.8         6.8         6.5         5.9         5.0         4.1         3.6         3.9         4.8         5.5         5.5         5.6         5.6         5.0         4.0         3.6         3.6         4.1         4.4         4.5         4.5         5.1         5.7         4.9         5.8         5.3         4.6         4.5         4.5         4.2         3.8         3.3         2.8         2.6         2.7         3.2         3.6         4.1         4.5         4.6         4.5         5.0         5.5         5.1         5.6         5.2         4.6         4.6         4.5         4.1         3.5         2.8         2.0         1.4         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1          0.2          0.6          1.5           3.6           6.5           8.9           9.6           10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10.3        10.7        9.3         7.8         4.8         6.8         6.4         6.6         6.3         7.0         7.3         6.2         6.5         6.6         6.3         7.5         6.9         6.1         6.5         6.9         7.1         9.0         9.0         8.3         8.3         8.0         7.7         7.3         7.0         7.3         8.4         9.1         6.9         9.1         8.3         7.1         6.7         6.7         6.5         5.8         4.9         3.9         3.5         3.8         4.6         5.2         6.9         7.2         5.5         4.8         4.1         3.7         3.7         4.1         4.5         4.5         4.6         5.4         6.0         5.6         6.1         5.7         4.8         4.6         4.5         4.3         3.9         3.4         3.0         2.7         2.9         3.3         3.7         4.2         4.5         4.5         4.6         5.4         6.0         4.9         6.1         5.6         4.7         4.5         4.5         4.1         3.6         2.8         2.1         1.4         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A @ 7.9'                                                          A @ 7.9'                                                          A @ 7.9'                                                                A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2          0.4          1.3           3.1           6.0           8.4           9.0           9.4         9.4         9.7         9.1         7.7         7.9         6.4         6.2         6.3         6.1         6.7         7.0         6.1         6.3         6.3         6.2         7.2         6.5         6.0         6.1         6.4         6.8         8.6         8.6         8.2         8.1         7.8         7.5         7.2         7.1         7.1         7.9         8.6         7.6         8.6         7.8         7.0         6.9         6.9         6.6         5.9         4.9         3.9         3.4         3.7         4.3         4.8         6.3         6.6         5.1         4.6         4.0         3.7         3.7         4.1         4.5         4.5         4.6         5.4         6.0         5.6         6.1         5.7         4.8         4.6         4.5         4.3         3.9         3.4         3.0         2.7         2.9         3.3         3.8         4.2         4.5         4.6         4.7         5.5         6.1         5.2         6.1         5.7         4.8         4.5         4.5         4.2         3.6         2.8         2.1         1.4         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1          0.4          1.2           2.9           5.2           6.8           8.6           9.3         8.1         8.5         8.5         7.0         6.1         5.6         6.3         6.5         6.1         5.4         5.4         5.8         6.4         6.4         5.8         5.4         5.3         5.9         6.2         6.4         6.5         6.8         7.3         8.0         8.1         7.6         7.3         7.2         7.1         6.9         7.0         7.6         7.1         7.5         7.0         6.9         7.0         7.0         6.6         5.8         4.8         3.8         3.3         3.5         4.2         4.4         3.2         3.3         4.6         4.4         3.8         3.5         3.6         4.1         4.4         4.5         4.5         5.1         5.7         4.9         5.8         5.3         4.6         4.5         4.5         4.2         3.8         3.3         2.9         2.6         2.8         3.2         3.7         4.2         4.5         4.5         4.6         5.3         5.9         5.3         5.9         5.4         4.6         4.5         4.4         4.1         3.5         2.8         2.0         1.4         0.9         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1          0.3          1.1           2.4           3.9           5.0           6.1           5.5  A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.4         6.9         6.5         5.3         4.5         4.4         5.4         5.8         4.9         4.2         4.1         4.5         5.8         5.8         4.5         4.2         4.2         4.8         5.8         5.8         5.1         5.4         5.9         6.7         7.3         7.1         6.9         7.1         7.0         6.8         6.8         6.9         6.1         6.9         6.8         6.8         6.9         6.8         6.2         5.4         4.4         3.5         3.1         3.5         3.9         3.7         3.5         3.6         3.8         4.2         3.9         3.4         3.6         4.1         4.5         4.7         4.6         4.7         5.0         4.5         5.1         4.8         4.6         4.7         4.6         4.3         3.8         3.3         2.8         2.5         2.7         3.1         3.6         4.2         4.5         4.6         4.6         4.9         5.2         4.9         5.2         4.9         4.5         4.6         4.5         4.1         3.4         2.7         1.9         1.3         0.9         0.6         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1          0.3          0.9           2.2           3.7           4.3           3.2           3.6         5.1         5.4         4.4         3.1         2.6         2.7         3.1         3.5         2.9         2.5         2.4         2.7         3.4         3.3         2.7         2.4         2.5         2.9         3.6         3.6         3.2         3.4         4.0         4.6         5.5         6.0         6.4         6.6         6.7         6.7         6.8         6.8         6.0         6.8         6.8         6.7         6.7         6.4         5.8         4.8         3.8         3.1         2.9         2.8         2.9         2.5         2.4         2.4         2.6         3.3         3.2         3.4         3.7         4.2         4.7         4.8         4.8         4.5         4.5         3.9         3.8         4.5         4.7         4.9         4.8         4.5         3.8         3.3         2.7         2.6         2.7         3.1         3.7         4.3         4.7         4.8         4.7         4.5         4.6         4.1         4.6         4.5         4.6         4.7         4.7         4.2         3.5         2.7         1.9         1.3         0.9         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1          0.3          0.8           2.0           3.4           3.6           3.8           3.9         3.7         3.8         2.9         1.9         1.3         1.3         1.3         1.4         1.3         1.2         1.1         1.2         1.4         1.4         1.3         1.1         1.2         1.4         1.6         1.8         1.8         2.0         2.4         3.0         3.8         4.8         5.4         5.8         6.1         6.4         6.6         6.7         6.6         6.7         6.6         6.4         6.1         5.7         5.1         4.2         3.3         2.7         2.2         2.0         1.7         1.4         1.4         1.5         1.7         2.1         2.6         3.0         3.7         4.3         4.8         5.0         4.8         4.5         4.5         4.5         4.6         4.5         4.6         5.0         5.0         4.6         4.0         3.2         2.7         2.6         2.7         3.1         3.8         4.4         4.9         5.0         4.8         4.5         4.5         3.8         3.8         4.4         4.6         5.0         4.8         4.4         3.6         2.7         1.9         1.3         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1          0.3          0.7           1.5           2.4           2.8                         2.8         2.4         2.1         1.7         1.2         0.7         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.6         2.3         3.0         3.7         4.4         4.9         5.4         5.9         6.1         6.2         6.1         6.2         6.1         5.9         5.3         4.8         4.2         3.4         2.8         2.2         1.7         1.4         1.2         0.9         0.9         1.0         1.2         1.7         2.3         2.8         3.6         4.3         4.7         4.7         4.5         4.3         4.4         4.4         4.5         4.4         4.4         4.7         4.8         4.5         3.9         3.2         2.8         2.7         2.7         3.1         3.8         4.4         4.8         4.9         4.6         4.5         4.6         4.4         4.5         4.3         4.5         4.8         4.8         4.4         3.6         2.7         1.9         1.3         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2          0.4           1.1                                                                 1.6         1.3         1.1         0.8         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.7         0.9         0.9         0.9         1.1         1.4         1.9         2.5         3.2         3.7         4.2         4.7         5.2         5.4         5.5         5.5         5.5         5.4         5.2         4.6         3.9         3.3         2.8         2.2         1.8         1.5         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.9         1.0         1.2         1.6         2.3         2.9         3.4         3.9         4.3         4.1         4.0         3.9         4.2         4.2         4.3         4.2         4.0         4.2         4.3         4.2         3.7         3.3         2.9         2.7         2.8         3.2         3.6         4.2         4.5         4.4         4.3         4.3         4.5         4.3         4.3         4.1         4.1         4.3         4.5         4.2         3.5         2.7         1.9         1.2         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.1           2.9           2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1          0.2           0.9                                                                 1.6         1.1         1.0         1.0         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.9         1.1         1.2         1.0         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.9         1.2         1.5         1.5         1.3         1.4         1.6         1.9         2.5         3.2         3.6         3.8         4.2         4.6         4.9         4.9         4.9         4.9         4.7         4.3         3.7         3.1         2.6         2.2         1.8         1.6         1.5         1.6         1.5         1.5         1.5         1.6         1.8         2.1         2.6         3.1         3.5         3.8         3.9         3.9         3.8         3.9         4.1         4.2         4.3         4.2         3.9         4.0         4.1         4.0         3.8         3.5         3.1         2.9         3.1         3.5         3.7         4.1         4.3         4.2         4.2         4.4         4.5         4.2         4.2         4.2         4.0         4.1         4.1         3.9         3.3         2.6         1.8         1.2         0.7         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.1           5.3           3.9           2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1          0.1           0.7                                                                 1.8         1.2         1.1         1.4         1.7         1.6         1.6         1.6         1.6         1.9         2.0         2.0         2.0         1.7         1.6         1.7         1.7         2.3         2.6         2.7         2.3         2.1         2.2         2.5         3.2         3.9         4.3         4.3         4.3         4.5         4.7         4.8         4.8         4.4         4.0         3.5         3.1         2.7         2.2         1.8         1.6         1.5         1.7         2.2         2.9         2.8         2.9         3.0         3.0         3.4         3.1         3.2         3.8         4.4         4.2         4.3         4.3         4.3         4.7         4.4         4.5         4.9         4.5         4.5         4.6         4.4         4.6         3.8         3.1         3.0         3.5         4.3         4.4         4.7         4.6         4.5         4.7         4.6         4.7         4.9         4.7         4.7         4.6         4.4         4.5         4.0         3.2         2.2         1.5         1.1         0.7         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.1           7.6           5.1           2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0          0.1           0.6           5.5                                                   1.8         1.2         1.1         1.8         2.7         2.8         2.7         2.7         2.7         3.2         2.9         2.6         3.1         2.9         2.7         2.8         2.9         3.6         3.7         3.7         3.4         3.1         3.2         3.4         4.1         4.5         4.8         5.0         4.8         4.9         5.0         5.3         5.1         4.1         3.5         3.1         2.8         2.4         2.0         1.7         1.5         1.5         1.8         2.9         4.1         4.5         4.5         4.6         4.6         4.4         3.6         3.0         3.9         5.0         5.2         5.3         5.2         5.3         5.2         4.5         4.5         5.2         5.5         5.4         5.6         5.5         5.3         4.1         2.9         2.7         3.8         5.1         5.6         5.6         5.6         5.5         5.3         4.7         4.6         5.2         5.7         5.6         5.5         5.3         5.3         4.2         2.7         1.8         1.2         0.9         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.7           5.4           3.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0          0.1           0.5           3.9                                                   1.7         1.2         1.2         1.9         3.0         3.6         3.5         2.5         3.6         3.5         2.8         2.7         3.2         3.6         3.5         2.6         3.7         3.8         3.7         3.8         4.0         3.9         1.7         4.1         4.3         4.3         4.6         5.0         5.1         3.1         5.4         5.5         4.8         3.9         3.2         2.9         2.7         2.4         2.1         1.9         1.7         1.7         2.0         2.9         4.3         5.3         5.5         5.6         5.2         4.5         3.2         2.8         3.3         4.8         5.7         5.7         5.9         5.8         5.0         3.9         3.8         4.9         5.8         5.9         6.1         5.9         5.1         3.6         2.6         2.4         3.4         5.0         6.0         6.1         6.2         6.0         5.2         4.1         3.9         4.8         5.8         5.9         6.1         5.8         5.1         3.6         2.2         1.4         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.0           2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0          0.0           0.2           1.9                                                               1.2         1.3         2.0         3.0         3.8         5.1         4.9         4.2         3.5         2.9         2.8         3.2         3.9         5.2         4.9         4.3         3.9         3.7         3.9         4.1         5.2         3.3         4.8         4.3         4.3         4.5         4.9         5.7         3.0         6.3         5.4         4.7         3.9         3.3         3.0         2.9         2.8         2.6         2.4         2.2         2.1         2.5         3.3         4.4         5.3         7.1         6.9         5.3         4.3         3.2         2.7         3.1         4.3         5.3         7.1         7.3         5.4         4.6         3.7         3.7         4.5         5.4         7.1         7.5         5.6         4.6         3.4         2.5         2.4         3.2         4.5         5.5         7.3         7.5         5.6         4.7         3.9         3.7         4.3         5.4         6.9         7.6         5.5         4.5         3.2         2.0         1.2         0.8         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.5           2.5           2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                    A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.1           0.9                                                               1.3         1.3         2.1         3.3         4.3         6.1         6.7         4.7         3.8         3.0         2.9         3.5         4.4         6.2         6.8         4.8         4.2         3.9         4.1         4.5         5.9         7.2         5.3         4.6         4.4         4.6         5.2         6.3         7.7         7.2         6.0         5.1         4.1         3.6         3.4         3.5         3.4         3.2         3.1         2.9         2.9         3.1         3.7         4.6         5.2         6.4         6.6         4.9         4.1         3.1         2.7         3.1         4.1         4.9         6.6         6.8         5.0         4.4         3.6         3.6         4.2         4.9         6.4         6.8         5.2         4.4         3.3         2.5         2.4         3.1         4.3         5.1         6.8         6.9         5.1         4.5         3.8         3.6         4.1         4.9         6.4         6.9         5.1         4.3         3.1         2.0         1.1         0.8         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.1           2.1         1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A @ 7.9'                                                                                        A @ 7.9'                                                                              A @ 7.9'                                                                                A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.1           0.5                                                               1.3         1.3         2.0         3.4         4.5         4.8         5.0         4.7         4.0         2.9         2.8         3.6         4.6         4.8         5.1         4.8         4.4         3.8         4.1         4.7         4.9         5.4         5.1         4.8         4.4         4.6         5.4         6.1         6.9         6.7         6.5         5.4         4.5         4.1         4.2         4.4         4.3         4.2         4.1         3.9         3.7         3.7         4.3         5.1         5.1         3.8         3.6         4.6         4.1         3.2         2.7         3.2         4.2         4.7         3.6         3.7         4.9         4.4         3.7         3.7         4.4         4.8         4.2         3.7         4.9         4.5         3.4         2.5         2.4         3.2         4.4         4.9         3.7         3.8         4.9         4.5         3.8         3.7         4.2         4.8         4.9         3.0         4.7         4.3         3.2         2.0         1.2         0.9         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5           2.0           2.2         1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0           0.3                                                               1.2         1.3         2.2         3.5         4.0         4.1         4.2         4.1         3.9         3.1         3.0         3.7         4.1         4.1         4.2         4.2         4.3         4.0         4.1         4.4         4.2         4.4         4.3         4.6         4.4         4.7         5.4         5.6         6.2         6.4         6.8         6.2         5.4         5.0         5.2         5.3         5.3         5.2         5.2         5.1         4.8         4.6         5.1         5.5         5.0         4.5         4.2         4.0         4.1         3.5         3.0         3.8         4.6         4.5         4.4         4.4         4.6         4.8         4.2         4.1         4.7         4.5         4.3         4.5         4.5         4.7         3.9         2.8         2.7         3.6         4.6         4.7         4.6         4.6         4.5         4.7         4.3         4.0         4.5         4.6         4.4         4.3         4.3         4.5         3.7         2.3         1.5         1.1         0.8         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2           2.1           2.1         1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0           0.2                                                               1.2         1.2         1.7         2.5         2.4         2.5         2.5         2.5         2.7         2.5         2.4         2.8         2.5         2.6         2.6         2.6         3.0         3.1         3.2         2.8         2.7         2.7         2.7         3.2         3.6         4.0         4.1         4.4         4.9         5.4         6.0         6.5         5.9         5.7         6.0         6.1         6.2         6.1         6.1         6.1         5.7         5.7         5.4         5.1         4.3         3.7         3.3         3.1         3.3         3.2         3.4         3.8         4.4         4.0         4.0         3.9         4.1         4.5         4.3         4.3         4.4         3.9         3.9         3.9         3.9         4.2         3.7         3.1         3.0         3.4         4.2         4.1         4.1         4.0         3.9         4.4         4.4         4.3         4.3         4.1         4.0         3.8         3.7         4.0         3.6         2.9         1.9         1.3         0.9         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.4           2.7         1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0           0.1           1.9                                                             0.9         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.4         1.3         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.5         1.7         1.6         1.4         1.3         1.3         1.5         1.8         2.2         2.6         2.9         3.3         3.8         4.7         5.5         6.1         6.3         6.3         6.5         6.6         6.7         6.7         6.8         6.8         6.5         6.2         5.7         4.8         3.8         3.2         2.8         2.5         2.5         2.9         3.3         3.7         3.9         3.8         3.8         3.8         3.8         4.1         4.1         4.2         4.0         3.7         3.7         3.8         3.7         3.6         3.4         3.1         3.0         3.2         3.5         3.6         3.9         3.9         3.8         3.9         4.2         4.2         3.9         3.8         3.7         3.7         3.6         3.7         3.5         3.0         2.2         1.5         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.1           3.3         1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0           0.1           2.4                                                             0.7         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.8         1.1         1.5         1.9         2.3         2.9         3.6         4.7         5.5         6.2         6.6         6.7         6.1         6.8         6.8         6.8         7.0         7.0         6.9         6.5         5.8         4.9         4.0         3.2         2.7         2.4         2.3         2.7         3.1         3.6         4.0         4.3         4.2         4.0         3.9         4.2         4.2         4.3         4.1         4.0         4.1         4.3         4.1         3.7         3.3         3.0         2.8         3.0         3.3         3.7         4.2         4.3         4.1         4.0         4.2         4.3         4.1         4.1         3.8         3.9         4.0         4.1         3.8         3.1         2.4         1.7         1.0         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.3           3.7         1.8         1.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.1           1.5                                                             0.7         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.8         1.0         1.4         1.9         2.6         3.3         4.0         5.0         5.9         6.6         6.9         6.3         6.2         6.2         6.9         6.8         7.0         7.0         6.9         6.6         6.1         5.3         4.5         3.6         2.9         2.6         2.4         2.6         3.0         3.7         4.4         4.8         4.8         4.5         4.3         4.4         4.4         4.5         4.3         4.4         4.6         4.8         4.5         4.0         3.3         2.9         2.8         2.9         3.3         4.0         4.5         4.8         4.6         4.4         4.4         4.5         4.3         4.4         4.2         4.4         4.6         4.6         4.1         3.3         2.4         1.7         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.4           2.9         2.1         1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.1           0.7                                                             0.8         0.5         0.5         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.9         1.2         1.2         1.0         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.9         1.2         1.5         1.3         1.1         1.2         1.4         1.8         2.6         3.6         4.3         5.0         5.9         6.6         7.1         7.4         7.4         6.6         6.7         7.5         7.3         7.1         6.8         6.7         6.7         6.4         5.7         4.9         3.9         3.1         2.7         2.5         2.6         3.0         3.7         4.4         4.9         5.1         4.8         4.5         4.5         4.5         4.6         4.4         4.6         5.0         5.0         4.6         4.0         3.3         2.8         2.8         2.9         3.3         4.1         4.6         5.0         5.0         4.6         4.4         4.6         4.5         4.5         4.4         4.7         4.9         4.7         4.2         3.3         2.4         1.7         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.5         2.4         1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.0           0.4                                                             0.9         0.6         0.7         1.2         1.6         1.6         1.5         1.5         1.6         2.0         2.3         2.2         2.1         1.7         1.6         1.7         1.8         2.4         2.5         2.6         2.2         2.1         2.3         2.8         4.0         4.9         5.8         6.5         7.2         7.9         8.2         8.3         8.2         8.2         7.7         8.7         8.5         7.8         6.9         6.8         6.7         6.5         5.9         5.1         4.2         3.2         2.8         2.5         2.6         3.0         3.6         4.3         4.8         5.0         4.8         4.5         4.5         3.9         3.8         4.5         4.7         4.9         4.9         4.5         3.9         3.3         2.8         2.7         2.9         3.4         3.9         4.6         4.9         4.9         4.7         4.5         3.8         3.9         4.5         4.4         4.8         4.8         4.7         4.1         3.3         2.4         1.7         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.8           2.6         2.5         1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.0           0.3                                                                         0.7         0.8         1.5         2.6         2.8         2.6         2.7         2.7         3.2         3.2         3.1         3.3         2.9         2.8         2.8         3.0         3.5         3.6         3.7         3.3         3.2         3.5         4.0         5.2         6.1         7.0         8.0         8.6         9.3         9.5         9.7         9.3         8.9         9.3         8.5         9.1         8.4         7.4         6.8         6.0         5.5         5.9         5.0         4.1         3.2         2.7         2.5         2.6         3.0         3.6         4.2         4.6         4.8         4.7         4.7         4.9         4.4         5.0         4.7         4.6         4.7         4.7         4.4         3.8         3.3         2.9         2.7         2.9         3.4         3.9         4.4         4.7         4.7         4.6         4.7         4.6         4.7         4.8         4.6         4.6         4.6         4.4         3.9         3.2         2.5         1.7         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.1         2.9         1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.0           0.2                                                                         0.8         0.9         1.7         2.7         3.5         3.5         1.3         3.6         3.6         3.2         3.1         3.5         3.7         2.5         2.5         3.8         3.8         3.7         3.8         4.0         4.0         3.2         4.8         5.4         6.1         7.2         8.5         9.4         7.9         10.4        10.2        9.3         9.3         9.3         9.2         9.1         7.4         7.5         6.0         6.0         6.4         5.8         5.0         4.1         3.2         2.7         2.5         2.6         3.1         3.5         4.1         4.5         4.6         4.5         5.1         5.6         5.2         5.7         5.3         4.6         4.5         4.5         4.3         3.9         3.3         3.0         2.7         3.0         3.4         3.9         4.3         4.5         4.5         4.6         5.3         5.7         4.5         5.6         5.0         4.5         4.5         4.3         3.9         3.2         2.5         1.7         1.2         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.4         3.3         2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.0           0.1           0.2                                                           1.0         1.0         1.7         2.8         3.7         4.8         2.9         4.4         3.6         3.3         3.2         3.5         4.1         5.5         5.4         4.2         3.9         3.7         3.9         4.3         5.7         5.7         5.4         5.5         6.2         7.3         8.7         10.7        9.4         11.1        10.1        9.2         8.8         9.0         9.1         8.9         8.2         7.3         6.8         6.7         6.5         5.9         5.1         4.2         3.2         2.8         2.6         2.7         3.1         3.6         4.2         4.5         4.6         4.6         5.4         6.0         5.3         6.1         5.7         4.8         4.5         4.5         4.3         4.0         3.4         3.1         2.9         3.1         3.5         4.0         4.3         4.5         4.5         4.8         5.7         6.1         5.6         6.0         5.3         4.5         4.5         4.4         3.9         3.3         2.6         1.8         1.2         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.1           2.1          C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.1         3.8         2.5         1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.3         1.2         1.8         3.0         4.1         5.6         6.9         5.0         4.1         3.5         3.4         3.8         4.6         6.6         6.5         4.6         4.2         3.9         4.1         4.8         6.6         7.4         5.8         5.8         6.2         7.3         7.6         11.1        13.1        11.5        10.5        9.2         8.4         7.4         8.1         8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.4         6.8         6.7         6.7         6.4         5.8         5.0         4.1         3.3         2.8         2.6         2.7         3.2         3.7         4.2         4.6         4.6         4.7         5.5         6.1         6.0         6.1         5.7         4.9         4.6         4.6         4.4         4.0         3.5         3.1         2.9         3.2         3.5         4.0         4.4         4.5         4.6         4.9         5.8         6.1         6.0         6.0         5.4         4.6         4.5         4.4         4.0         3.3         2.6         1.8         1.2         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.6         3.5         2.8         2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A @ 7.9'                                                                                  A @ 7.9'                                                                                A @ 7.9'                                                                              A @ 7.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E @ 20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E @ 20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.1           1.1                                                           1.5         1.3         1.9         3.1         4.3         4.8         5.2         4.8         4.3         3.4         3.3         3.9         4.7         5.0         5.0         4.8         4.2         3.8         4.3         4.9         5.2         5.5         5.7         5.7         5.5         6.8         8.5         9.7         10.9        11.1        10.7        9.2         7.3         6.5         7.2         7.0         6.9         6.9         6.8         6.6         6.2         5.5         4.7         3.8         3.0         2.6         2.4         2.6         3.1         3.6         4.1         4.5         4.6         4.6         5.2         5.8         4.6         5.9         5.4         4.7         4.5         4.5         4.3         3.9         3.4         3.0         2.7         3.0         3.4         3.9         4.3         4.5         4.5         4.7         5.4         5.9         4.9         5.7         5.1         4.5         4.4         4.3         3.9         3.2         2.5         1.7         1.2         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.3         2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.1           0.8                                                           1.7         1.4         2.0         3.2         4.1         4.0         4.2         4.1         4.2         3.5         3.4         4.0         4.1         4.2         4.2         4.3         4.3         4.1         4.3         4.4         4.4         4.6         4.9         5.4         5.7         6.5         7.8         8.5         9.6         10.0        10.2        8.5         7.1         7.1         6.9         6.7         6.9         7.0         6.9         6.4         5.8         5.0         4.2         3.3         2.8         2.4         2.3         2.4         3.0         3.5         4.2         4.5         4.7         4.6         4.8         5.1         4.5         5.2         4.8         4.6         4.6         4.6         4.3         3.8         3.3         2.9         2.7         2.9         3.3         3.9         4.3         4.6         4.6         4.5         4.8         5.2         4.9         5.0         4.7         4.6         4.6         4.4         3.9         3.2         2.5         1.7         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.0         2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.1           0.6                                                                       1.5         1.8         2.5         2.5         2.5         2.5         2.5         2.7         2.8         2.8         2.9         2.6         2.6         2.6         2.7         3.2         3.1         3.3         2.8         2.8         2.9         3.1         3.9         4.6         5.4         5.7         6.5         7.3         7.7         8.3         8.2         6.5         7.1         6.8         6.7         6.9         6.9         6.6         6.1         5.3         4.4         3.5         2.8         2.4         2.1         2.1         2.3         2.9         3.5         4.3         4.8         4.9         4.8         4.6         4.5         4.0         3.9         4.5         4.6         4.8         4.8         4.5         3.9         3.3         2.8         2.7         2.8         3.3         3.9         4.5         4.8         4.8         4.6         4.4         3.9         3.9         4.5         4.5         4.7         4.8         4.6         4.0         3.2         2.4         1.7         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7.1         5.3         3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.1           0.6                                                                       1.5         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.6         1.6         1.4         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.5         1.7         1.6         1.4         1.4         1.4         1.7         2.2         2.9         3.4         3.8         4.4         5.0         5.7         6.1         6.4         6.7         6.6         6.5         6.4         6.5         6.4         5.9         5.5         4.7         3.8         2.9         2.4         2.0         1.8         1.9         2.2         2.8         3.6         4.4         4.9         5.0         4.8         4.5         4.5         3.8         3.8         4.5         4.6         5.0         4.9         4.6         3.9         3.3         2.8         2.7         2.8         3.3         4.0         4.6         4.9         4.9         4.6         4.4         3.7         3.7         4.4         4.4         4.7         4.9         4.7         4.1         3.3         2.4         1.7         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.2         5.8         3.1         2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.1           0.2           4.2                                                         1.4         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.9         0.9         0.8         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.9         1.2         1.7         2.2         2.5         3.0         3.4         4.1         4.5         5.1         5.6         5.7         5.8         5.6         5.7         5.5         5.1         4.5         3.9         3.1         2.5         2.0         1.7         1.6         1.8         2.2         2.8         3.6         4.4         4.8         5.0         4.7         4.4         4.5         4.4         4.5         4.3         4.4         4.7         4.8         4.5         3.9         3.2         2.7         2.7         2.8         3.2         3.9         4.5         4.8         4.7         4.3         4.2         4.3         4.3         4.3         4.2         4.4         4.7         4.5         4.0         3.2         2.3         1.7         1.1         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.1           0.3           2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.6         5.2         3.1         1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.3         1.0         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.8         1.2         1.5         1.9         2.3         2.5         2.9         3.5         4.2         4.6         4.8         4.8         4.7         4.7         4.5         4.1         3.5         3.0         2.6         2.0         1.7         1.5         1.6         1.8         2.3         3.0         3.6         4.2         4.6         4.5         4.3         4.2         4.3         4.1         4.1         4.0         3.9         4.0         4.2         4.0         3.5         3.0         2.7         2.5         2.7         3.0         3.5         4.0         4.2         4.0         3.8         3.8         3.9         3.8         3.9         3.7         3.8         4.0         4.1         3.6         2.9         2.3         1.6         1.0         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.5         3.2         2.5         1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.1           1.2                                                         1.3         1.1         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.2         1.3         1.3         1.2         1.1         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.9         1.1         1.4         1.7         1.9         2.2         2.5         2.9         3.4         3.8         4.0         3.9         3.8         3.7         3.6         3.4         2.9         2.5         2.1         1.8         1.6         1.5         1.7         2.0         2.5         3.1         3.6         4.1         4.3         4.1         3.9         3.9         3.8         3.6         3.5         3.3         3.2         3.2         3.3         3.3         3.0         2.7         2.4         2.2         2.4         2.7         3.0         3.3         3.3         3.2         3.1         3.2         3.2         3.1         3.2         3.1         3.1         3.1         3.2         2.9         2.5         2.0         1.4         0.9         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.7         1.9         1.9         1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.1           0.6                                             1.7         1.3         1.3         1.5         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.9         1.9         1.7         1.6         1.6         1.5         1.3         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.4         1.7         1.9         2.0         2.2         2.6         3.0         3.3         3.5         3.6         3.5         3.4         3.2         3.1         3.0         2.6         2.2         2.0         1.9         1.7         1.8         2.0         2.5         2.8         3.2         3.7         4.0         4.0         3.8         3.6         3.6         3.5         3.0         2.8         2.6         2.4         2.4         2.4         2.4         2.4         2.2         2.0         1.9         2.0         2.2         2.4         2.4         2.3         2.3         2.3         2.4         2.4         2.3         2.4         2.3         2.2         2.2         2.2         2.2         2.0         1.6         1.2         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.0           0.3         0.9         1.2         1.3         1.3         1.1         1.3         1.6         1.9         2.6         3.3         3.6         3.5         3.0         2.3         1.9         1.9         1.8         1.7         1.8         1.9         1.9         1.9         2.2         2.0         1.9         2.0         2.1         2.1         2.3         2.5         2.4         2.6         2.9         3.3         3.8         3.9         3.7         3.5         3.3         3.0         2.9         2.9         2.7         2.4         2.3         2.3         2.2         2.1         2.5         2.7         2.9         3.6         4.5         4.7         4.7         4.5         3.7         3.3         3.0         2.3         2.0         1.8         1.7         1.6         1.7         1.7         1.7         1.6         1.5         1.5         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.7         1.7         1.6         1.6         1.7         1.6         1.6         1.7         1.6         1.5         1.5         1.6         1.5         1.4         1.1         0.9         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.0           0.2         0.4         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         1.1         1.5         1.9         3.1         5.5         6.9         6.7         4.3         2.4         1.9         1.8         1.9         2.3         3.9         4.6         3.5         2.3         2.3         2.3         3.3         4.6         4.3         2.8         2.4         2.4         2.8         4.4         5.3         4.5         3.7         3.7         4.2         4.9         4.7         3.5         2.7         2.6         2.5         2.8         3.8         4.2         3.5         2.6         2.5         2.4         2.7         3.5         5.6         7.3         7.3         5.5         3.6         2.8         2.3         1.8         1.4         1.2         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.1         1.1         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.0           0.1         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.8         1.2         1.5         2.8         5.8         8.5         7.8         4.2         2.0         1.4         1.4         1.5         2.2         5.2         7.0         4.3         2.1         1.9         2.0         3.8         7.0         5.9         2.7         1.9         1.9         2.5         5.5         7.5         5.1         3.1         3.0         4.3         7.0         6.8         3.7         2.2         2.1         2.0         2.7         5.4         6.9         4.6         2.4         2.1         2.1         2.1         3.1         5.8         8.7         8.7         5.6         3.1         2.1         1.8         1.2         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M @ 10.5'                                                                                               C @ 7.9'                                                                    C @ 7.9'                                                                        C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.0           0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.4         0.5         0.7         1.2         2.0         2.9         2.5         1.6         1.0         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.7         1.2         1.0         1.1         0.7         0.6         0.7         1.0         1.9         1.5         0.9         0.7         0.7         0.9         1.4         1.3         1.5         1.3         1.3         1.8         2.8         2.8         1.7         1.0         0.9         0.9         1.3         2.3         2.2         2.0         1.2         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.6         2.8         4.2         4.2         2.8         1.7         1.1         0.9         0.7         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.1         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C @ 7.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M @ 10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Designer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8/6/21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Scale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1" = 40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Drawing No.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Plan View                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Scale - 1" = 40ft
