Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: March 25, 2021
Re: City Initiated Hedgerow Text Amendment request Comments: This City initiated application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of amending regulations pertaining to the use of hedgerows and other landscaping elements within land use buffers. The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.  The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.  The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. T he potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.  The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For a negative recommendation:
1.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.  The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.  The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6.  The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 3/19/2021 Cover Memo