NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a City Council Meeting on Tuesday, January 19, 2021, at 5:30 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE This meeting will be held electronically. WRITTEN DETERMINATION 2021-02 pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 52-4-207(4)
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper continue to fluctuate at high levels, both of which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system and health care providers.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with state and local health departments' health orders.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
To participate, please see the options below:
Listen through the Draper City Website – https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us . These will become part of the public record.
Those wishing to speak during the meeting, send a request for the Zoom meeting ID including your name, address, and phone number which you will be calling from to public.comment@draper.ut.us .
a 5:30 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Discussion: UTOPIA Fiber-Roger Timmerman a 2. Presentation: Tree Commission a 3. Legislative Update: Representative Suzanne Harrison a 4. Update: Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District - Reed Gibby a 5. Presentation: Parks Capital Improvement Projects - Rhett Ogden a 6. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a 7. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 3. Consent Items a. Approval of Resolution #21-04, adopting a new logo for the City of Draper Staff: Britnee Johnston b. Approval of Resolution #21-06, reappointing Walt Roseman and Laura Baker to the Draper City Tree Commission. c. Approval of Resolution #21-07, Bond Defeasance Series 2012B and Series 2016 Consideration for adoption of a resolution of the City Council of Draper City, authorizing the defeasance of certain of its outstanding Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012B and certain of the outstanding Lease Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2016 issued by the Municipal Building Authority of the City of Draper from legally available monies of the City; approving the execution of an escrow agreement; and related matters. Staff: Bob Wylie.  d. Approval of Resolution #21-08, requesting election services from Salt Lake County to participate in the Municipal Alternate Voting Methods Pilot Program A resolution of Draper City stating its intent to participate in the Municipal Alternate Voting Methods Pilot Project (a.k.a. Ranked Choice Voting) for  2021 and requesting election services from Salt Lake County to participate in the Municipal Alternate Voting Methods Pilot Program.  4. Action Item: Ordinance #1473, amending Chapter 7-2 of the Draper City Municipal Code pertaining to sewage disposal Staff report by Scott Cooley
a 5. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1472, Siempre Event Center Development Agreement (Legislative Action) On the request of Paxton Guymon, representing Siempre LLC, for a Development Agreement  in the C2 and RM Zone regarding a future event center located at South Mountain Golf Course. This agreement would modify the number of parking spaces required for an event center development and allow for a portion of the parking spaces to be constructed of geo-grass pavers. Staff report by Travis Van Ekelenburg. a 6. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1471, City Initiated Parking Ordinance Changes Text Amendment (Legislative Item) On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to amend Sections 9-25-030, 9-25-060 and 9-25-080 of Draper City Municipal Code. This application is known as the City Initiated Parking Ordinance Changes Text Amendment. Staff report by Todd Draper. a 7. Public Hearing: Resolution #21-05, Amending the current Fiscal Year Budget FY2021 Staff report by Bob Wylie a 8. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held January 19, 2021 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: January 15, 2021 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.