                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 April 1, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 8, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By:              Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
                          Community Development Department
                          801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:     Steele Body Works HOCUP– Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-0028-2021
        Applicant:        Robert Steele
        Project Location: 14893 S Springtime Rd
        Current Zoning: C-3 (General Commercial District) Zone
        Acreage:          0.2 Acres (Approximately 8,712 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the C-3 zone regarding a Home Occupation Business as
                          a Massage Therapist.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.2 acres located on the east side of Springtime Rd, at approximately 14893
S Springtime Rd (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned C-3 . The applicant is requesting
that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for the site to be
used as a home based business.

The property is currently a single-family home that was built in 2019, and is located in the
Utah County side of Draper City. It is part of the Hidden Canyon Estates development.
Hidden Canyon Estates was approved under a Development Agreement in 2015 which
authorized single-family detached homes within the C-3 zoning. The C-3 zone is no longer a
zoning district within the City, and dates back to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (1999
DCMC). The property was originally zoned along with the Suncrest Development, but is not
part of the Suncrest.



Steele Body Works HOCUP                                                    App. # USE-0028-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request        1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the C-3 zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to 1999
DCMC Section 9-5-040 the purpose of the C-3 zone is to “provide areas, in appropriate
locations, where a combination of business, retail commercial, entertainment, and related
activities may be established, maintained and protected. Regulations for this district are
designed to provide a suitable environment for those commercial and service uses which are
vital to economic life” The RM zoning is to the east, C-3 zoning abuts the subject property on
the north, east and south.

Proposed Use. The applicant will have one customer at a time for a maximum of two
customers per day. The hours for this business will be 9:00AM to 9:00PM, seven days per
week. The applicant will utilize one 10’X13’ room in the home for this business and any and
all storage supplies will reside in the closet in the business room (Exhibit F).



Steele Body Works HOCUP                                                    App. # USE-0028-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
Since the applicant will have only one customer at a time, the driveway will be used for
customer parking and will not impede the use of the home as a single-family residence.
The applicant will not have any signage and will not have signage on any private or
business vehicles at the residence (Exhibit G).

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
            resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
            the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             The applicant owns and resides within the home.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
            and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             After approval of the Some Occupation Conditional Use Permit the applicant will
             apply for his business license.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
            employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
            limited to one person.

             The applicant will have no employees in the home with this business.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
            other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
            city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             The applicant will comply with any inspections that are required for city, state, or
             county officials.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
            fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             The applicant will utilize the standard size closet in the massage room for any
             supplies.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
            exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a



Steele Body Works HOCUP                                                           App. # USE-0028-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     3
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
             provide parking required for a home occupation.

             The house will remain visually as a home with no evidence of a business from
             the outside. The applicant will have only one customer vehicle at one time in
             their driveway.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
            offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
            magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             The applicant will have no nuisance activity at the home.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
            primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
            disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
            is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
            for the home occupation.

             The subject home is approximately 4,636 ft². Twenty five percent of the home’s
             square footage is 1,159 ft², and the salon will use 130 ft² utilizing only 2.8% of the
             home. The Home Occupation use will always be a secondary use at the property.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
                 title.

                 The applicant will comply with Title 9 Chapter 26 of the DCMC.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             The applicant will have one client at a time in their driveway during business
             hours. The driveway is 26LX39W. This will not affect parking for the residence
             which will take place inside the enclosed garage.



        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
            vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
            would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
            shall be allowed on vehicles.



Steele Body Works HOCUP                                                          App. # USE-0028-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
             The applicant does not have vehicles that are associated with the home
             business. The applicant will not have any signage on their vehicles at the
             residence.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
            any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             The applicant will not use their yard for any business activities.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             The applicant is applying for permission through the Conditional Use process to
             have customers on site that will range from 1-2 daily, 7 days a week.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
            excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             The utility use for this business will be minimal and will not be significantly
             different from normal residential usage.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             The business will meet this requirement as all business activities will take place
             within the home.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
            conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
            dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
            this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
            letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
            case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
            vehicles.

             The applicant has a single family home. The applicant will not have any
             employees other than themselves.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
            state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
            not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
            Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate



Steele Body Works HOCUP                                                        App. # USE-0028-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
             childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
             seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
             inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
             under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             The applicant has a single family home. The applicant will not have any
             employees other than themselves.



Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,




Steele Body Works HOCUP                                                        App. # USE-0028-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and



Steele Body Works HOCUP                                                     App. # USE-0028-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
                 Business License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the
                 home occupation on the property.
        2.       The business shall meet all requirements of DCMC Section 9-34-040, except
                 as provided by this permit.
        3.       The applicant shall obtain all necessary inspections prior to starting business
                 operations, including, but not limited to a building inspection, fire inspection,
                 and Health Department inspection.
        4.       The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate
                 licensure from any and all necessary State and County agencies prior to
                 receiving a business license.
        5.       Customer parking shall be located on-site. On-street parking shall not be
                 utilized for the business.
        6.       The business is limited to two customers per day.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
                alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.      Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit , as requested by Robert Steele, application USE-0028-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit , as requested by Robert Steele, application USE-0028-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2021,
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit , as requested by Robert Steele, application USE-0028-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2021.




Steele Body Works HOCUP                                                        App. # USE-0028-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. The proposed use on the property will have a low intensity of customers and hours
      of operation that will have a low impact on neighboring properties.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

We have reviewed the subject home occupation conditional use permit (CUP) application
according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our understanding that
the applicant is requesting a conditional use permit to offer therapeutic massages located
at the subject address. Accordingly, we offer the following comments related to the
engineering findings, including the following:

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and
      other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted by the
      proposed use. The number of trips generated by potential employee(s), the owner
      is the only employee, will not have a detrimental impact to the area due to the
      nature of the residence and the availability of onsite parking in the driveway at the
      residence. The applicant states customers will come to the residences one at a time
      or at maximum two customers will be expected at the business. The subject
      residence has a three-car garage and driveway with adequate off-street parking for
      the customer(s). Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to
      generate a significant impact to traffic, water, sewer, or other utilities;
   2. Parking is available at the residence, and Engineering recommends that all parking
      be in the driveway of the residence. The fronting public street is the typical
      residential street but may be impacted by snow or neighborhood traffic and
      therefore should not be the primary parking location. Onsite parking is especially
      important during winter months when there may be excessive snow on the street
      and where on-street parking may be a safety issue;
   3. Traffic circulation in the area is not anticipated to be negatively impacted. General
      access to the residence is from Springtime Road, a residential street. Based on the
      requested use, the anticipated increase in traffic is insignificant, from a single
      customer, and will not impact street functionality in the neighborhood or at
      intersections accessing the residence.
   4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
      welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the
      property or improvements in the vicinity based on the proposed shipping and
      delivery portion of the business, limited number of customers onsite, and the few
      employees working at the site.



Building Division Review.

   1. No comments.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No comments.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
 EXHIBIT E
FLOOR PLAN
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
