                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 July 26, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: August 12, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:     Advmaker –Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-0049-2021
        Applicant:        Priti Hansia
        Project Location: 376 E Thornberry Dr.
        Current Zoning: R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum)
                          Zone
        Acreage:          0.21 Acres (Approximately 9,148 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the R3 zone regarding a home business creating metal
                          art sculptures for sale.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.21 acres located on the south side of Thornberry Dr., at approximately 376
E Thornberry Dr. (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting
that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a home based
business creating metal art sculptures for sale.

The single family home is part of the Cranberry Hill 6 PUD, and the home was built in
approximately 1996.



ANALYSIS




Advmaker                                                         App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         1
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the R3 zoning designation (Exhibit D). According to Draper
City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3 zone is to “permit
medium density residential development without special mitigation requirements. This zone is
intended to provide incentives to foster residential development with little impact on its
surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve the semirural character
called for in the density element of the general plan.” The entire property is surrounded by
the R3 zone.

Home Occupation Request. The purpose of the home occupations regulations can be found
in DCMC Section 9-34-010. The intent is to allow for limited business activities in residential
areas without disturbing the residential character of the neighborhood. Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permits are subject to the standards in DCMC Section 9-34-040 and
pursuant to the requirements in DCMC Section 9-5-080.

        DCMC Section 9-34-010:
        The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for home



Advmaker                                                           App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
        occupations. These regulations are intended to ensure that limited business activities
        allowed in a residential zone do not disturb the residential character of a neighborhood.

DCMC Section 9-34-050 lists uses allowed in residential zones. The applicant makes art
sculptures out of metal, and sells them out of the home. The applicant seeks to have the
HOCUP approved as a Cottage Business. The Planning Commission should look at the
definition of a cottage business and assess whether the facts presented by the applicant
support approval under this standard.

        DCMC 9-3-040: Definitions:
        COTTAGE BUSINESS: A business where products are created in the home. The products
        are unique in nature, such as handicraft, art, and jewelry. Limited food production can
        also be considered. Anything that uses a material, a mixture of materials or a quantity of
        materials that could be classified by the fire marshal or building official as dangerous or
        hazardous will not be allowed.

The applicant’s materials are stored in the garage and the rear yard (Exhibit F). The garage
houses the equipment used for the metal art such as tools for grinding, cutting, welding,
etc. The applicant states that he sells the art and does it additionally for a hobby.

Citizen Comment. Several Citizens have commented in regard to the proposed Home
Occupation and are attached in Exhibit G.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, can be found below. The applicant’s submittal to the criteria can be found in
Exhibit E of this report.

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             Applicants Response: Only I work on the metal sculptures that I sometimes sell. In
             my “Advmaker LLC” I am the sole member.

             Staff Analysis: The applicant owns the home and is the business owner.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
            and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             Applicants Response: I plan to get one if I continue to work on sculptures for sale.
             I have purchased a warehouse in another city, and most likely will take my




Advmaker                                                              App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
             business operations there after next April next year (waiting for the tenant to
             move out). I will still continue to use my home garage for personal projects.

             Staff Analysis: The applicant will obtain a business license for any business
             operated on site until such a time that the business is relocated to another
             location. A condition of approval has been included requiring the license.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

             Applicants Response: There are no employees. Sometimes my friends come over
             to borrow my tools to fix or work on their personal projects. I do not charge
             them and no business activity takes place with them. I do not take help from
             anyone for my business work.

             Staff Analysis: The applicant will be the only employee for the business.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             Applicants Response: Agreed.

             Staff Analysis: If the proposed HOCUP is approved, inspections will be conducted
             as needed for the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, Building
             Occupancy, and Business License to ensure compliance with the DCMC and the
             International Fire Code (IFC).

            Fire Review. The fire marshal has reviewed the application and has substantial
            concerns in regard to the proposed Home Occupation business. The comments
            in their entirety can be found in Exhibit A.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
            fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             Applicants Response: All metal stock needed for business items are only
             purchased on demand and kept inside the garage during use. There is
             some metal in a rack in the back yard and that is strictly for
             hobby/personal projects. I will also attach a schematic of how I divided my
             garage space for business and hobby use. The schematic shows that I am
             able to limit the business use space within the allotted 250sqft.




Advmaker                                                                App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
             Staff Analysis: Draper City staff, including Code Enforcement, has visited the
             property to see the scope of the potential business. Staff has visually
             determined that the applicant is utilizing more than the allowed square footage
             and area allowed by the DCMC Section 9-34-040(E) for Home Occupations
             (Exhibit H). The applicant is allowed up to 250 ft² for all business activity and
             storage. Staff observed during the inspections several areas of open metal stock
             and equipment in the rear yard and in rear detached structures. These areas
             equal roughly 100ft², in addition to the garage space. The garage appeared to be
             entirely used by metal working equipment and there was no area available for
             vehicle use. The applicant needs to demonstrate compliance with code
             requirements.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
            exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
            dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
            benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
            provide parking required for a home occupation.

             Applicants Response: Agreed.

             Staff Analysis: The applicant initially had business activities in the side facing
             driveway but has stated they have since moved into the garage. The applicant
             bears the burden of showing the Planning Commission that all business
             activities will be conducted entirely within the garage

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
            offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
            magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             Applicants Response: When I need to use tools like a grinder, I keep the
             garage door at least half closed and have found that it keeps the noise
             perceived from outside at an acceptable level.

             Staff Analysis: Staff has not witnessed the machine activity from the applicants
             business for a general noise analysis nor has a decibel analysis been submitted
             for the noise outside the garage by the applicant.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
            primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
            disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
            is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
            for the home occupation.




Advmaker                                                             App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
             Applicants Response: Agreed.

             Staff Analysis: The applicant’s home is approximately 2763 ft², and Home
             Occupations are allowed to utilize 25% of the home’s square footage for their
             Home Occupation. The applicant has submitted that they are utilizing 228 ft² of
             the garage for business use and approximately 172 ft² for hobby use of the
             garage. The applicant has stated that the hobby use and the business use utilize
             the same equipment as they are the same activity, which makes differentiation
             between the business and the hobby use very difficult since there is no clear
             separation between the two.

        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

             Applicants Response: There are no signs kept in the premises.

             Staff Analysis: Per DCMC Section 9-26-070(B)(1) home occupations are allowed to
             have signage equaling a maximum of 2 square feet in size, with the sign
             attached to the plane on the building. No signage has been applied for, or
             observed during site inspections. If the applicants desire to add signage in the
             future, it will have to comply with the sign code. A condition of approval has
             been included requiring compliance with DCMC Section 9-26-070(B)(1).

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             Applicants Response: My business is to sell sculptures online and no customer
             visits our home.

             Staff Analysis: The applicant states that they are the only employee of the
             business and no customers visit the home. The City has received complaints
             from neighbors about traffic congestion at the property. No business traffic was
             observed during the staff inspections. In addition, the business request will
             eliminate the properties two car garage from being utilized as a parking area.
             The DCMC Section 9-25-050(G) states that the required two parking spaces for
             single-family homes be located within an enclosed garage.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
            vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
            would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
            shall be allowed on vehicles.




Advmaker                                                                 App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     6
             Applicants Response: Agreed.

             Staff Analysis: The applicant is allowed to use their private vehicle for transport
             of business items, but there is no off-site parking allowed and no vehicle signage
             is allowed.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
            any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             Applicants Response: Agreed, only personal use items are kept in back yard.

             Staff Analysis: It is very difficult for staff to discern between “hobby” items in the
             rear yard and “business storage” items in the rear yard, so it is staff’s
             determination that the outside storage of materials could be related to the
             business and is outside the scope of this development standard. The applicant
             will need to convey clear distinction between business and hobby use and any
             activities and storage should be prohibited in the yard.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             Applicants Response: Agreed, no customers visit our home.

             Staff Analysis: The applicant has stated that customers do not come to the
             residence and staff has not witnessed any customers coming to the residence.
             Staff did see that the applicant does have a van and a flat trailer, and the
             applicant would need to convey exactly how the products are delivered to
             customers.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
            excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             Applicants Response: Agreed.

             Staff Analysis: Most of the tools that the applicant uses for the business uses
             electricity. Utility demand could still be the same demand as the surrounding
             residential uses.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             Applicants Response: Agreed.




Advmaker                                                              App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    7
             Staff Analysis: The business activity takes place in the attached two car garage of
             the home, and the applicant has been directed by code enforcement that all
             business activity needs to take place in the enclosed garage and not in the open
             driveway.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
            conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
            dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
            this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
            letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
            case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
            vehicles.

             Applicants Response: Agreed.

             Staff Analysis: The subject property is a single-family residence, so an approval
             letter is not needed in this case.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
            state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
            not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
            Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
            childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
            seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
            inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
            under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

            Applicants Response: Agreed.

            Staffs Response: Childcare is not applicable for this application.



      Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional
use permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These



Advmaker                                                             App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                  emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                  facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                  of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Advmaker                                                           App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends that they
include the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                 site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
        2.       Comply with all the requirements of DCMC 9-34-040, except for alterations to
                 the standards enumerated in that subsection specifically approved by the
                 Planning Commission.
        3.       That all work for the business is conducted within the approved 250 ft² area
                 inside the garage.
        4.       That the garage door is lined with sound proofing material for noise
                 mitigation.
        5.       That the garage is vented properly for painting per the International Fire
                 Code and International Building Code.
        6.       That all outside storage is placed within the detached structure (shed) in the
                 rear yard and that there is no outside storage on the property.
        7.       That the PC impose reasonable hours of operation in light of the identified
                 detrimental effects of the use.
        8.       Per DCMC Section 9-34-040(D) inspections will be conducted as needed for
                 the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, Building Occupancy, and
                 Business License.
        9.       The business shall obtain and maintain a Draper City business license.




Advmaker                                                           App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   10
The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures have been placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic, noise, and parking.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic, noise, and parking.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit , as requested by Priti Hansia for Advmaker LLC, application USE-0049-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 26,
2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit , as requested by Priti Hansia for Advmaker LLC, application USE-
0049-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated July 26, 2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit , as requested by Priti Hansia for Advmaker LLC, application USE-0049-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 26, 2021.




Advmaker                                                              App. # USE-0049-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   11
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

              Staff Determination for Approval Standards. Staff has determined
              considering the analysis above that the applicant is deficient in several areas
              for the DCMC’s criteria for development and approval:

        1.    The applicant appears to be unable to meet DCMC area requirements for the
              HOCUP due to the activity on the property utilizing the entire garage and a
              large portion of the rear yard.
        2.    The applicant has equipment that without a proper noise analysis could
              potentially change the character of the neighborhood as the industrial nature
              of the equipment may cause a potential nuisance for adjacent neighbors.
        3.    The applicant has been unable to clearly discern between business and
              hobby use as the two are the same activity, making analysis for compliance
              very difficult.
        4.    The applicant may have equipment and/or activity that is not allowed in
              residential areas per the IFC.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

              We have reviewed the subject home occupation conditional use permit (CUP)
              application according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our
              understanding that the applicant is requesting a conditional use permit to operate
              an artistic metal shop at their residence. Accordingly, we offer the following
              comments related to the engineering findings, including the following:

       1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and
              other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as
              described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to
              generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other utilities.

       2.     The number of trips generated by potential employee(s), none presently
              anticipated other than the home owner/principal artist, will not have a detrimental
              impact to traffic in the area due to the nature of the residence and the capacity of
              the fronting public residential street at the subject site.
       3.      The applicant indicated that all the metalwork occurs in the garage. In the case
               the garage is not available for vehicle parking, all onsite parking should be in the
               driveway to avoid causing any issues by on-street parking.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Fire Division Review.

Comments:
               The Draper City Fire Department has reviewed this application and has
               reviewed photos of the work going on onsite. This is not consistent with a
               home occupancy this is more a commercial occupancy. A standard single
               family home in the International Fire Code (IFC) is called an R-3 type of
               occupancy. What I have reviewed seems to be more of a Manufacturing type
               of occupancy and metal fabrication is considered an F-2 occupancy type in
               the IFC. The single family dwelling is not designed to meet this type of
               commercial use. Below you will see some of the fire code requirements that
               will need to be met in order for the business to operate. This is not all of
               them but quite a few and this does not address any Building Code
               requirements.

       1.      2404.9 Limited spraying spaces. Limited spraying spaces shall comply with
               Sections 2404.9.1 through 2404.9.4.

              Limited spraying spaces are to accommodate uses that are limited in their
               frequency and amounts of hazardous materials used. As mentioned
               previously, this operation is intended more for small touch-up work found in
               a maintenance shop.

      2.       2404.9.1 Job size. The aggregate surface area to be sprayed SHALL NOT
               exceed 9 square feet (0.84 m2) (This would be a 3 foot by 3 foot area).

              Limiting the work piece size limits the amount of flammable vapors that are
               produced in such an area. This is again to accommodate small incidental-
               type spraying processes found in typical manufacturing or mercantile
               occupancies.

      3.       2404.9.2 Frequency. Spraying operations shall not be of a continuous nature.

              As mentioned previously, the limited spraying setup is to accommodate small
               incidental-type processes. If the processes are continuous, a spray booth,
     spray room or spraying space that has more stringent requirements and is
     better regulated from a fire prevention and fire protection standpoint must
     be used.

4.   2404.9.3 Ventilation. Positive mechanical ventilation providing not fewer than
     six complete air changes per hour shall be installed. Such system shall meet
     the requirements of this code for handling flammable vapor areas. Explosion
     venting is not required.

    Six air changes per hour is the requirement for limited spraying areas;
     however, if the quantity of hazardous-material in the room or control area in
     which the limited spraying space is located exceeds the MAQ for hazardous
     materials given in Chapter 50 or 57, both exhaust ventilation requirements in
     those chapters for flammable vapors and the requirement in this section
     have to be met. A typical example would be a plating shop where allowable
     quantities of corrosives and toxics are exceeded (Group H-4) and where the
     exhaust ventilation at a rate of 1 cfm per square foot [0.00508 m3/(s • m2)] of
     floor area is required. If a limited spraying space is located in such a room,
     the most restrictive requirement has to be met; that is, the greater of 1 cfm
     per square foot [0.00508 m 3/(s • m 2)] or six air changes per hour. The vapor
     density of the material (whether vapors are heavier or lighter than air) should
     be taken into account when considering the location of exhaust inlets.
     Additionally, because IMC Section 502.7.2 is identical to this section,
     conformance to the general requirements of IMC Section 502, especially
     Section 502.1.1 (the inlet to an exhaust system shall be located in the area of
     heaviest concentration of contaminants), is recommended.

5.   2404.9.4 Electrical wiring. Electrical wiring within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the
     floor and 20 feet (6096 mm) horizontally of the limited spraying space shall
     be designed for Class I, Division 2 locations in accordance with NFPA 70.

    Processes in limited spraying spaces may still result in some vapor
     generation. Because they are generally heavier than air, vapors in spray
     processes typically accumulate near the floor. These vapors may travel long
     distances undetected before causing a flash fire. To limit the ignition sources,
     wiring must be installed to meet Class I, Division 2 requirements within 10
     feet (3048 mm) of the floor and 20 feet (6096 mm) horizontally.

6.   604.5 Extension Cords Extension and flexible cords SHALL NOT be a
     substitute for permanent wiring and SHALL be listed and labeled in
     accordance with UL817. Extension cords SHALL be used only with portable
     appliances.
     7.      Any and all operations that include welding of any type or similar operation
             shall be subject to meeting the requirements of the 2018 International Fire
             Code Chapter 35.

     8.      2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
             serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to
             be located in a conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and
             immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or
             not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not
             more than five (5) feet above the floor.

     9.      Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
             address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
             property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.

Notes:

   Plan approval or review shall not, be construed to relieve from or lessen the
   responsibility of any person designing, owning, operating or controlling any building.
   Damages to persons or property caused by defects, fire, improper installation, or other
   emergency conditions that occur in or on the building property shall not hold the
   Draper City Fire Department as assuming any liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
      EXHIBIT E
APPLICANT QUESTIONS
9-34-040:‌‌DEVELOPMENT‌‌STANDARDS;‌‌PERMITTED‌‌USE:‌ ‌
The‌‌development‌‌standards‌‌set‌‌forth‌‌in‌‌this‌‌section‌‌shall‌‌apply‌‌to‌‌any‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌
allowed‌‌as‌‌a‌‌permitted‌‌use:‌ ‌
A.‌ ‌Ownership:‌‌The‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌owned‌‌and‌‌operated‌‌by‌‌a‌‌person‌‌who‌‌
resides‌‌in‌‌the‌‌dwelling‌‌where‌‌the‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌is‌‌located.‌‌Such‌‌person‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌the‌‌
primary‌‌provider‌‌of‌‌the‌‌labor,‌‌work,‌‌or‌‌service‌‌provided‌‌in‌‌the‌‌home‌‌occupation.‌     ‌
   ‌
Only‌‌I‌‌work‌‌on‌‌the‌‌metal‌‌sculptures‌‌that‌‌I‌‌sometimes‌‌sell.‌‌In‌‌my‌‌"Advmaker‌‌LLC"‌‌I‌‌am‌‌the‌‌
sole‌‌member.‌ ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
B.‌ ‌Business‌‌License:‌‌A‌‌business‌‌license‌‌for‌‌the‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌obtained‌‌
from‌‌and‌‌continually‌‌maintained‌‌with‌‌the‌‌city‌‌pursuant‌‌to‌‌title‌‌6,‌‌chapter‌‌11‌‌of‌‌this‌‌code.‌ ‌
   ‌
I‌‌plan‌‌to‌‌get‌‌one‌‌if‌‌I‌‌continue‌‌to‌‌work‌‌on‌‌sculptures‌‌for‌‌sale.‌‌I‌‌have‌‌purchased‌‌a‌‌
warehouse‌‌in‌‌another‌‌city,‌‌and‌‌most‌‌likely‌‌will‌‌take‌‌my‌‌business‌‌operations‌‌there‌‌after‌‌
April‌‌next‌‌year‌‌(waiting‌‌for‌‌the‌‌tenant‌‌to‌‌move‌‌out).‌‌I‌‌will‌‌still‌‌continue‌‌to‌‌use‌‌my‌‌home‌‌
garage‌‌for‌‌personal‌‌projects.‌ ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
C.‌ ‌Employees:‌‌Members‌‌of‌‌the‌‌family‌‌of‌‌the‌‌owner‌‌who‌‌reside‌‌in‌‌the‌‌dwelling‌‌may‌‌be‌‌
employed‌‌in‌‌the‌‌home‌‌occupation.‌‌Nonfamily‌‌or‌‌nonresident‌‌employees‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌limited‌‌
to‌‌one‌‌person.‌ ‌
   ‌
There‌‌are‌‌no‌‌employees.‌‌Sometimes‌‌my‌‌friends‌‌come‌‌over‌‌to‌‌borrow‌‌my‌‌tools‌‌to‌‌fix‌‌or‌‌
work‌‌on‌‌their‌‌personal‌‌projects.‌‌I‌‌do‌‌not‌‌charge‌‌them‌‌and‌‌no‌‌business‌‌activity‌‌takes‌‌
place‌‌with‌‌them.‌‌I‌‌do‌‌not‌‌take‌‌help‌‌from‌‌anyone‌‌for‌‌my‌‌business‌‌work.‌ ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
D.‌ ‌Inspection:‌‌All‌‌facilities‌‌shall‌‌comply‌‌with‌‌fire,‌‌building,‌‌plumbing,‌‌electrical‌‌and‌‌all‌‌
other‌‌city,‌‌county,‌‌state‌‌and‌‌federal‌‌codes.‌‌Inspections‌‌during‌‌reasonable‌‌hours‌‌by‌‌city‌‌
officials‌‌may‌‌occur‌‌as‌‌necessary‌‌to‌‌assure‌‌compliance‌‌with‌‌regulations.‌ ‌
   ‌
Agreed.‌ ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
E.‌ ‌Inventory:‌‌No‌‌stock‌‌in‌‌trade,‌‌inventory,‌‌or‌‌other‌‌merchandise‌‌to‌‌exceed‌‌two‌‌hundred‌‌
fifty‌‌(250)‌‌square‌‌feet‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌kept‌‌on‌‌the‌‌premises.‌‌No‌‌outside‌‌storage‌‌is‌‌allowed.‌‌(Ord.‌‌
909,‌‌7-21-2009)‌ ‌
  ‌
All‌‌metal‌‌stock‌‌needed‌‌for‌‌business‌‌items‌‌are‌‌only‌‌purchased‌‌on‌‌demand‌‌and‌‌kept‌‌
inside‌‌the‌‌garage‌‌during‌‌use.‌‌There‌‌is‌‌some‌‌metal‌‌in‌‌a‌‌rack‌‌in‌‌the‌‌back‌‌yard‌‌and‌‌that‌‌is‌‌
strictly‌‌for‌‌hobby/personal‌‌projects.‌‌I‌‌will‌‌also‌‌attach‌‌a‌‌schematic‌‌of‌‌how‌‌I‌‌divided‌‌my‌‌
garage‌‌space‌‌for‌‌business‌‌and‌‌hobby‌‌use.‌‌The‌‌schematic‌‌shows‌‌that‌‌I‌‌am‌‌able‌‌to‌‌limit‌‌
the‌‌business‌‌use‌‌space‌‌within‌‌the‌‌allotted‌‌250sqft.‌ ‌
  ‌
  ‌
  ‌
F.‌ ‌Modification‌‌Of‌‌Structures‌‌Or‌‌Yards:‌‌There‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌no‌‌visible‌‌evidence‌‌from‌‌the‌‌
exterior‌‌of‌‌a‌‌dwelling‌‌that‌‌it‌‌is‌‌being‌‌used‌‌for‌‌any‌‌other‌‌purpose‌‌than‌‌that‌‌of‌‌a‌‌dwelling.‌‌
No‌‌activities‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌carried‌‌on‌‌outside‌‌the‌‌dwelling‌‌in‌‌the‌‌yard‌‌for‌‌the‌‌benefit‌‌of‌‌or‌‌
incidental‌‌to‌‌the‌‌home‌‌occupation.‌‌No‌‌front‌‌yard‌‌area‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌altered‌‌to‌‌provide‌‌parking‌‌
required‌‌for‌‌a‌‌home‌‌occupation.‌‌(Ord.‌‌1132,‌‌2-17-2015)‌ ‌
  ‌
Agreed.‌ ‌
  ‌
  ‌
  ‌
  ‌
G.‌ ‌Nuisance:‌‌Tools,‌‌items,‌‌equipment,‌‌or‌‌activities‌‌conducted‌‌within‌‌the‌‌dwelling‌‌which‌‌
is‌‌offensive‌‌or‌‌noxious‌‌by‌‌reason‌‌of‌‌the‌‌emission‌‌of‌‌odor,‌‌smoke,‌‌gas,‌‌vibration,‌‌
magnetic‌‌interference,‌‌or‌‌noise‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌prohibited.‌ ‌
  ‌
When‌‌I‌‌need‌‌to‌‌use‌‌tools‌‌like‌‌a‌‌grinder,‌‌I‌‌keep‌‌the‌‌garage‌‌door‌‌at‌‌least‌‌half‌‌closed‌‌and‌‌
have‌‌found‌‌that‌‌it‌‌keeps‌‌the‌‌noise‌‌perceived‌‌from‌‌outside‌‌at‌‌an‌‌acceptable‌‌level.‌ ‌
  ‌
  ‌
  ‌
H.‌ ‌Secondary‌‌Use:‌‌The‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌clearly‌‌incidental‌‌and‌‌secondary‌‌to‌‌
the‌‌primary‌‌use‌‌of‌‌the‌‌dwelling‌‌for‌‌residential‌‌purposes.‌‌The‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌shall‌‌not‌
disrupt‌‌the‌‌normal‌‌residential‌‌character‌‌of‌‌the‌‌neighborhood‌‌in‌‌which‌‌the‌‌residence‌‌is‌‌
located.‌‌Not‌‌more‌‌than‌‌twenty‌‌five‌‌percent‌‌(25%)‌‌of‌‌the‌‌dwelling‌‌unit‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌used‌‌for‌‌the‌‌
home‌‌occupation.‌ ‌
  ‌
Agreed.‌ ‌
  ‌
  ‌
  ‌
I.‌ ‌Signs:‌‌All‌‌signage‌‌in‌‌a‌‌residential‌‌area‌‌must‌‌comply‌‌with‌‌chapter‌‌26,‌‌"Signs",‌‌of‌‌this‌‌
title.‌ ‌
  ‌
  ‌
There‌‌are‌‌no‌‌signs‌‌kept‌‌in‌‌the‌‌premises.‌ ‌
 ‌
 ‌
J.‌ ‌Traffic,‌‌Parking,‌‌And‌‌Access:‌‌No‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌use‌‌shall‌‌generate‌‌pedestrian,‌‌
parking,‌‌or‌‌vehicular‌‌traffic‌‌in‌‌excess‌‌of‌‌that‌‌customarily‌‌associated‌‌with‌‌the‌‌zone‌‌in‌‌
which‌‌the‌‌use‌‌is‌‌located.‌‌All‌‌parking‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌provided‌‌and‌‌maintained‌‌on‌‌site‌‌with‌‌
adequate‌‌provision‌‌for‌‌drop‌‌off‌‌traffic.‌ ‌
 ‌
My‌‌business‌‌is‌‌to‌‌sell‌‌sculptures‌‌online‌‌and‌‌no‌‌customer‌‌visits‌‌our‌‌home.‌
 ‌
 ‌
 ‌
K.‌ ‌Vehicles:‌‌Other‌‌than‌‌the‌‌business‌‌owner's‌‌personal‌‌transportation,‌‌there‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌no‌‌
vehicles‌‌or‌‌equipment‌‌on‌‌the‌‌property‌‌associated‌‌with‌‌the‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌which‌‌would‌‌
not‌‌normally‌‌be‌‌found‌‌at‌‌a‌‌residence.‌‌No‌‌signage‌‌for‌‌the‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌
allowed‌‌on‌‌vehicles.‌ ‌
 ‌
Agreed.‌ ‌
 ‌
 ‌
 ‌
L.‌ ‌Yards:‌‌Yards‌‌surrounding‌‌the‌‌dwelling‌‌and‌‌accessory‌‌buildings‌‌shall‌‌not‌‌be‌‌used‌‌for‌‌
any‌‌activities‌‌or‌‌storage‌‌of‌‌any‌‌materials‌‌associated‌‌with‌‌the‌‌home‌‌occupation.‌ ‌
 ‌
Agreed,‌‌only‌‌personal‌‌use‌‌items‌‌are‌‌kept‌‌in‌‌back‌‌yard.‌ ‌
 ‌
 ‌
 ‌
M.‌ ‌Customers:‌‌No‌‌customers‌‌allowed.‌‌Children‌‌accessing‌‌a‌‌limited‌‌daycare‌‌or‌‌limited‌‌
preschool‌‌facility‌‌shall‌‌not‌‌be‌‌considered‌‌customers.‌ ‌
 ‌
Agreed,‌‌no‌‌customers‌‌visit‌‌our‌‌home.‌ ‌
 ‌
 ‌
 ‌
N.‌ ‌Utility‌‌Demand:‌‌The‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌shall‌‌not‌‌cause‌‌a‌‌demand‌‌for‌‌public‌‌utilities‌‌in‌‌
excess‌‌of‌‌that‌‌necessarily‌‌and‌‌customarily‌‌provided‌‌for‌‌residential‌‌uses.‌ ‌
 ‌
Agreed.‌ ‌
 ‌
 ‌
 ‌
O.‌ ‌Main‌‌Structure:‌‌The‌‌home‌‌occupations‌‌shall‌‌be‌‌conducted,‌‌located,‌‌and‌‌contained‌‌
within‌‌the‌‌primary‌‌structure‌‌on‌‌the‌‌property.‌‌(Ord.‌‌909,‌‌7-21-2009)‌ ‌
 ‌
Agreed.‌ ‌
  ‌
  ‌
  ‌
P.‌ ‌Single-Family‌‌And‌‌Multiple-Family‌‌Dwellings:‌‌Home‌‌occupations‌‌listed‌‌as‌‌permitted‌‌
or‌‌conditional‌‌within‌‌this‌‌title‌‌may‌‌be‌‌permitte‌‌d‌‌in‌‌a‌‌single-family‌‌or‌‌a‌‌multiple-family‌‌
dwelling,‌‌subject‌‌to‌‌the‌‌standards‌‌found‌‌within‌‌this‌‌section‌‌and‌‌section‌‌9-34-060‌‌of‌‌this‌‌
chapter.‌‌Businesses‌‌within‌‌multiple-family‌‌dwellings‌‌shall‌‌provide‌‌an‌‌approval‌‌letter‌‌
from‌‌the‌‌respective‌‌homeowners'‌‌association,‌‌or‌‌management‌‌company‌‌in‌‌the‌‌case‌‌of‌‌
apartments,‌‌if‌‌the‌‌business‌‌proposes‌‌any‌‌employees,‌‌customers‌‌or‌‌business‌‌vehicles.‌‌
(Ord.‌‌1132,‌‌2-17-2015)‌ ‌
  ‌
Agreed.‌ ‌
  ‌
  ‌
  ‌
Q.‌ ‌Licensure:‌‌Any‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌involving‌‌childcare‌‌shall‌‌comply‌‌with‌‌all‌‌applicable‌‌
state‌‌and‌‌local‌‌laws‌‌and‌‌regulations‌‌regarding‌‌residential‌‌childcare,‌‌including,‌‌but‌‌not‌‌
limited‌‌to,‌‌provisions‌‌of‌‌the‌‌Utah‌‌child‌‌care‌‌licensing‌‌act,‌‌as‌‌set‌‌forth‌‌in‌‌Utah‌‌Code‌‌
Annotated‌‌section‌‌26-39-101‌‌et‌‌seq.,‌‌as‌‌amended,‌‌and‌‌the‌‌residential‌‌certificate‌‌childcare‌‌
standards‌‌as‌‌set‌‌forth‌‌in‌‌the‌‌Utah‌‌administrative‌‌code‌‌section‌‌R430-50-1‌‌et‌‌seq.,‌‌as‌‌
amended.‌‌In‌‌addition,‌‌cottage‌‌food‌‌production‌‌operations‌‌are‌‌regulated‌‌and‌‌inspected‌‌by‌‌
the‌‌Utah‌‌department‌‌of‌‌agriculture.‌‌Any‌‌food‌‌related‌‌home‌‌occupation‌‌under‌‌their‌‌
jurisdiction‌‌must‌‌comply‌‌with‌‌these‌‌regulations.‌‌(Ord.‌‌909,‌‌7-21-2009)‌ ‌
  ‌
Agreed.‌ ‌


                   ‌
        EXHIBIT F
HOME OCCUPATION USE AREA
Schematic‌‌of‌‌space‌‌use‌‌in‌‌garage‌ ‌




                                                            ‌
Figure:‌‌The‌‌bottom‌‌boundary‌‌is‌‌the‌‌garage‌‌door.‌ ‌
     EXHIBIT G
CITIZEN COMMENTS
From:                       Lori Brussock <Lori.Brussock@imail.org>
Sent:                       Wednesday, August 4, 2021 3:39 PM
To:                         Travis Van Ekelenburg
Subject:                    Public Hearing - USE - 0049-2021 (Priti Hansla)

Hello, I am writing you in regards to the public hearing scheduled for August 12th at 6:30 pm for the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit that the resident on 376 Thornberry Dr has applied
for. Because of Covid I will not be attending but understood we could e-mail.

I live in the neighborhood on Honey Locust Ct which is the circle that is just past this home. Whether I
am leaving or coming home I have to pass this home and I am 100% against this home having a business
running out of the home, but am very concerned with the type of business that they are applying for. I
am unfamiliar with all hazarders of welding but do believe that a fire hazard would be a great concern
for me, their garage is full of stuff, the garage is made out of wood, sheetrock and insulation which as
you know are all flammable and I believe that if a spark would get away there could be a fire and with
their garage being so full that fire will go up fast and consume the home which then put all the
surrounding homes in danger.

I know from driving by or walking with husband it is loud when he is welding and omits a weird smelly
odor, to me it is an uneasy feeling to see tanks all over and sparks flying all over when he is welding, if I
can hear and smell from my car or when walking then the houses surrounding must have it much
worse. One day I witnessed the owner pour a barrel of what I believe was water out onto his driveway
just outside the garage and I watch it run down to the gutter, this was rust colored which also stained
his driveway. I would think the discoloration of the water is some kind of byproduct from the welding
but unsure but I can’t imagine that can be good for the environment going into the sewer.. I have
witnessed the fence line on the east side of the home have sheets of metal pieces piled up and covered
with a tarp sometimes. None of these things look good or can be safe to have just piled around but the
piles will surely grow if a license is granted, also how can this not reflect on the value of homes in the
neighborhood? For sure having a welding business in the middle of a neighborhood would only make
our home values go down.
This neighbor also has people that stay or rent from them, I know this as the old owners (The
Hernandez’s) work with me and told me the couple have no children but did plan to have renters. There
are always at least three cars in the front of this house parked on the road, not even in winter do they
utilize the driveway, there is a small curve in the road just before this home so it is as if the road is
already a little narrow there, with the three cars that are always there and now possible patrons that is
too much traffic in and out of our neighborhood, this homeowner already has no regard for others in
the neighborhood by not having the renter use the driveway, he has put a two lane road to a one lane, it
does not seem like Draper city cares as I personally complained to city in the winter but nothing
happened, not one time in two years have they ever pulled their cars off the road during a snow
storm, with a business license out of their home this would only mean more traffic on the road which is
dangerous and unfair to other home owners driving on road and living in the neighborhood.

I feel that any business in a residential neighbor that could require people coming and going from your
home is not good for the any home owners. I feel there is an appropriate place for these businesses and
in the middle of a very busy residential neighborhood with tons of little children is not the proper place
for this.
When we looked to buy our home in this neighborhood about 5 years ago it would of made all the
difference in the world to me if I would of saw a welding business at the top of my street, I feel as a
homeowners that our rights would be being taken away if this homeowner was allowed to run this type
of business out of his home.

I am asking that you please consider the residents that are opposed to this and deny the homeowners
request.

Thank you for your time.

Lori Brussock
NOTICE: This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient and may contain confidential
and privileged information. If you are not the intended recipient, you are prohibited from
reviewing, using, disclosing or distributing this e-mail or its contents. If you have received this e-
mail in error, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of this e-mail and
its contents.
From:                     Elisa Higham <elisa.h@comcast.net>
Sent:                     Thursday, August 5, 2021 2:42 PM
To:                       Travis Van Ekelenburg
Subject:                  Public Hearing input - App#USE-0049-2021 Cranberry Hill
                          neighborhood

Dear Sir,

On behalf of my family, I want to express my concerns about having a welding business in our
neighborhood.

I have concerns regarding safety. While welding in an appropriate area with certified welders etc
has its own risks, this activity in a garage in a neighborhood not zoned for commercial or
industrial is inherently dangerous.

I am sure the people applying for this variance are very nice and responsible, but the control they
have over traffic and children and curiosity seekers cannot be controlled. My concerns include
(but are not limited to)
1). Traffic and lots of extra cars on the narrow street, especially at the intersection area that a
business would bring - including the owners vehicles which are not able to be parked in the
garage due to the fact the garage is full of equipment.
2) I am sure they have certified welders and safety measures in place, but as a business grows,
specifically in a small area like this, there are no guarantees that the additional people they might
hire are certified to work with acetylene and Oxygen and fire - these are hazardous items and
when mishandled cause severe consequences.
3). One of the main things that makes our neighborhood attractive is that it is a residential
area. Metal and welding torches on this level are major equipment. Being a small business, they
are not under the supervision of OSHA or any other safety organization. Even the most innocent
and well intentioned people are subject to unforeseen hazards when dealing with industrial
processes. Even with a "home welder" the hazards are real - multiply that by business sizes...
4). We have several small children in the area - kids are curious and unfortunately they don't
always heed their parents advice to stay away from dangerous places - they don't see the
dangers. This could result in a very sad outcome for all parties - I am sure the owners wouldn't
want harm to come to anyone. Yes accidents happen, but there isn't a reason to increase the odds
in an area with small children, seniors and pets. Aside from the hazardous nature of welding, the
traffic and parking cause blind spots where children appear "out of nowhere".

Basically our family feels this is just not an appropriate business for our little suburban
neighborhood and I hope you will take these concerns into account.

Please feel free to reach out if you want any clarification? I appreciate Draper City taking time
to consider our feelings and needs.

Marty and Elisa Higham

801-558-0742
elisa.h@comcast.net
From:                    Bridget Johansen <bridgetmjohansen@gmail.com>

Sent:                    Tuesday, August 3, 2021 12:02 AM

To:                      Travis Van Ekelenburg

Subject:                 Regarding App. # USE-0049-2021



Hello Travis,



I received the notice of public hearing regarding the request for a Conditional Use Permit at 376
Thornberry Drive.



As a neighbor who lives close by and walks or drives by this home on a regular basis, I have
great concern for what they are trying to accomplish. I do not believe our neighborhood is the
appropriate location for operating an industrial business. My concerns are the loud noise, the fire
hazard, the toxic fumes and the chemical runoff, to name a few. I also have concerns regarding
the additional traffic that this business may ensue. I do not know Priti or Joy, so this has nothing
to do with my like or dislike for them personally.



As the city makes their decision regarding this matter, I would like to state my strong opposition
to this permit being granted.



Thank you for your consideration.



Sincerely,



Bridget Johansen
From:                   AJ Pepper <adrianpepper@gmail.com>

Sent:                   Sunday, June 6, 2021 6:15 PM

To:                     * Code Enforcement; ralphsmailbag1@aol.com

Cc:                     Mike Barker; Spencer DuShane; David Dobbins; Jennifer Jastremsky;
                        Travis Van Ekelenburg; Kirk Anderson; Don Buckley; Lucas Fowler

Subject:                Wolferts Correspondence to Draper City (6.6.2021)

Attachments:            Wolferts Correspondence to Draper City (6.6.2021).pdf



Follow Up Flag:         Follow up

Flag Status:            Flagged



Please see the attached correspondence to Draper City from Ralph and Judy Wolferts.



Thank you,
From:                         Jacob Reese <jacobnreese5@gmail.com>
Sent:                         Monday, August 2, 2021 10:41 PM
To:                           Travis Van Ekelenburg
Subject:                      APP# USE-0049-2021 - Iron art Guy in Cranberry Hill

Travis,

I am a resident living with my wife and 2 small children just around the corner from the Hasania
residence. I was planning on attending the public hearing on Thursday, August 12th but will be traveling
for work.

In your position, I’m sure you get a bunch of angry people screaming and yelling. I will try to give you the
most reasonable explanation as to why this shouldn’t even be considered in our neighborhood. Here are
3 reasons which I have felt for the last 2 years since this guy moved in.

    1. The type of business he is currently running. If he owned a scrapbook business, that’s another
       story. This is a full-on industrial grinding and welding operation. We often hear grinding in the
       early hours of the morning. His driveway, garage, and fence is all turning orange from the rust
       and welding going on. The constant noises are clear evidence that this is NOT a business that
       should be in a residential neighborhood. He belongs on industrial ave in north salt lake.

    2. Traffic and camper vans. It is not uncommon to drive by his home and see 3-5 new cars parked
       out front of his home every day. Unfortunately, the crowd that is brought with his business is
       not family friendly and often involves having 2 camping vans with people living in them parked
       in his driveway every weekend. I believe he is using air bnb and renting out this space. With two
       small children, we have to be extra careful with our children outside.

    3. The guy is an absolute jerk. I have observed his kind neighbor ask nicely for him to stop grinding
       in the early morning. Priti in turn, yells and screams at him and takes no consideration to the
       requests made. The grinding affects our “quiet use and enjoyment”, and does not belong in
       draper Utah.

Families come to this neighborhood to raise their children as we have done. This permit does not belong
in a residential neighborhood and I am frustrated that this is even a topic of discussion.

I respectfully voice my opi

nion against Priti receiving any permit to run his iron art business.

p.s. have you ever seen a heart shaped tennis raquet? Look no further than 376 e Thornberry drive!!!


Jacob Reese
801-520-4165
11518 South Honey Locust Court Draper Utah 84020
From:                    Carol Simon <simon5856@gmail.com>
Sent:                    Tuesday, August 3, 2021 6:04 PM
To:                      Travis Van Ekelenburg
Subject:                 Comment on request for business permit use in residential
                         neighborhood, cranberry hill by Priti Hansia at 376 E. Thor berry Dr.

As a resident of Cranberry Hill neighborhood, I strongly oppose the above request to conduct a
welding business in our residential neighborhood.

The welding that is being performed already is noisy, unsightly, and smelly, and brings increased
traffic through the neighborhood. This neighbor should rent a shop suited for this type of
business in a business location. He also seems to be using his front yard as an advertising lot, as
it is filled with large welded metal artwork already. I fear with his business, his front yard will
become a large lot of welded metal.

 I believe this type of business will add potential fire danger to the neighborhood and will
negatively impact nearby home values as well. A residential neighborhood on the middle of
town is just not safe or suited for this activity.

Thank you,
Carol Simon
261 Cranberry Hill Dr, Draper
801-910-5728
From:                   Cari Passey <outlook_9C99BA9E902B87E2@outlook.com> on behalf of
                        Cari Passey <cari@caripassey.com>
Sent:                   Friday, August 6, 2021 12:46 PM
To:                     Travis Van Ekelenburg
Subject:                CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: 376 Thornberry Dr, Draper UT
Attachments:            • 376 Thornberry Dr.docx

To Travis & Draper Planning Commission:

Concerning the application for CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   • Cranberry Hill Neighborhood Subdivision
   • 376 Thornberry Dr, Draper UT
   • For Industrial Use purposes

Many feel that Draper City should protect ALL of its residents: homeowners, residents, business
owners, and industrial businesses. This being said… please allow residents to live in protected
residential areas, and have businesses (especially industrial businesses) be designated and
protected in business areas (as well as their clientele).

Many from our neighborhood plan on being at the Draper Planning Commission to see how
Draper City will help support ALL of its residents.


These are the MAIN CONCERNS: (but not all the concerns)
   • Neighborhoods should be protected from all:
           o safety hazards, chemical hazards, waste hazards, traffic hazards, etc.
   • Businesses that cannot be hidden from the street should move their businesses from
       residential areas to business appropriate areas
   • Businesses with high traffic should have a parking area for all customers, not a
       neighborhood street on a main access road
   • Businesses with a store front belong in a business district
   • Industrial businesses belong in an approved industrial park area:
           o Have a hazard disposal area for waste
           o Safety features in place for dangerous machinery
           o Storage areas and space for all equipment, material and products, etc.
           o Which offers store front and parking access
           o A safe place for all types of potential customers to come and see their product

ISSUES WITH SAFETY:
INDUSTRIAL BUSINESS IN A BEDROOM COMMUNITY
Home owners at 376 Thornberry Dr are running an industrial business:
DANGEROUS:
   •   There are no safety or oversight laws set up in our residential neighborhood for an
       industrial business, to protect our families and homes.
   •   Homeowner constructs large iron and steel objects with no proper way to dispose
       waste and byproduct:
          o runoff from the cutting and welding of iron, steel, other metals, etc.
          o additional runoff from the coatings and finishing materials that are applied to
               the metal.
          o backyard is filled with material, supplies, debris and scraps from the metal
               working business
          o chemicals draining into our land and community water system
                    leaching chemicals or toxins into the soil
                    we have vegetable gardens planted nearby
                    we are eating the food we have in our gardens
          o waste chemicals and waste scrap in our landfill vs. proper disposal set up for
               these kinds of hazard materials.
          o fire hazards
          o flames, sparks and fumes
          o dangerous and noisy machinery

   •   Concerns about large iron and steel objects being made and displayed
          o many over 5” tall
          o all finished products are located in the front yard,
          o also a hazard if any were to tip over onto kids
   •   Welds and repairs metal structures in his driveway and garage
          o OUT FRONT AND IN FULL VIEW, WITH EASY ACCESS
                  Children can easily wander around in all of this because it is
                  In the front yard, driveway and garage
          o Entire garage is filled with large pieces of machinery, parts, equipment, etc.
             DANGEROUS for everyone, except himself.
          o Garage is left open most of the time… children, curious onlookers or mischievous
             teenagers can easily see and approach.

FIRE SAFETY HAZARD:
    • Our homes are relatively close to one another
    • In the event of a fire it could spread very quickly to surrounding homes.
    • EMT and Fire response trucks would have difficulty reaching the areas

TRAFFIC AND PARKING ISSUES DUE TO BUSINESS AT HOUSE
   • Thornberry Drive is a main access street in Cranberry Hills neighborhood:
          o It allows us to reach many other streets and courts.
          o For many of us, Thornberry is the ONLY way we can get to our homes.
   • Traffic – this is a child friendly neighborhood with many children playing.
   • This neighborhood was set up with children in mind
          o Meandering streets, lots of curves, courts and circles
          o NOT set up on a GRID with wide streets for traffic.
          o Intentionally set up for homes with families
          o Parks nearby, bike and child friendly
          o Park strip out in front with wide sidewalks.
          o Clearly a neighborhood and NOT an Industrial Park
SAFETY CONCERNS:
   • There are too many cars out front, blocking the street, creating many blind spots where
      children cannot be seen.
          o Obstructed view and diminished visibility for drivers
          o CANNOT see around all the parked cars, SUVs & vans.
          o Kids likely to walk between the vehicles to cross the street.
          o Sidewalks blocked for walkers
          o Dangerous for the children living next door and down the street.
   • Cars can only go pass this house VERY SLOWLY, single file to make sure there are no
      children present due to MANY CARS parked on both sides of the street.
   • Cars must drive VERY SLOWLY so as not to hit the cars lined up on both sides of the
      street.
   • Emergency vehicles CANNOT safely pass in front of this house.
   • Regular traffic has difficulty safely passing in front of this house.

ADDITIONAL POTENTIAL CONCERNS:
  • What kind of clientele are now coming into our neighborhood to see their storefront,
      out in their front yard.
          o Are they safe citizens
          o Are they concerned with the welfare of our children, our homes, our streets, etc.
          o Will the homeowner being hiring others as his business picks up
                   If so, are they safe citizens
                   Will they be concerned with the welfare of our children, our homes, our
                      streets, etc.




Cari Passey
Cari@CariPassey.com
801-638-7494
From:                      Gerika Logan
Sent:                      Monday, May 10, 2021 12:38 PM
To:                        Travis Van Ekelenburg
Subject:                   Constituent Complaint : HOCUP | USE-0049-2021

Follow Up Flag:            Follow up
Flag Status:               Flagged

Hi Travis,

The constituent complaint was from Ralph Wolferts who lives at 833 E Thornberry Dr. His number is
(801)523-8105.

Best,

                  Gerika Logan
                  Planning Coordinator | Community Development Department
                  1020 E. Pioneer Road, Draper, UT 84020
                  Office: 801-576-6551 | gerika.logan@draperutah.gov | draperutah.gov



**Please note new email and website**

DRAPER CITY IS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC FROM 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM, MONDAY-FRIDAY.
This e-mail, including attachments, may contain confidential and/or proprietary information, and may
be used only by the person or entity to which it is addressed. If you have received this e-mail in error,
please notify the sender by replying to this message and delete this email immediately.
From:                    Josh Peterson <joshypetersons@gmail.com>

Sent:                    Monday, August 2, 2021 11:22 PM

To:                      Travis Van Ekelenburg

Subject:                 Cranberry Hill Permit - DO NOT ALLOW



To whom it may concern,



Please add me to the list of the many in the cranberry hill neighborhood against USE-0049-2021
at 376 E Thornberry Drive. We do not want this business in our neighborhood and I will not
support it any longer. Our sidewalks are orange and the 24/7 grinding needs to stop!



I live off of Thornberry and do not approve.


Thank you for taking immediate action on this matter.




-Josh Peterson
                                        AJ Pepper, Esq.
                                        E. Thornberry Drive
                                       Draper, Utah 84020


                                         August 4, 2021


Draper City
Attn: Planning Commission
1020 E. Pioneer Road
Draper, Utah 84020

Re: Conditional Use Permit Application - 376 E. Thornberry Drive, Draper, Utah 84020


Dear Members of the Planning Commission:

I am writing to you to oppose a Conditional Use Permit for the welding and fabrication
manufacturing business located at 376 E. Thornberry Drive, Draper, Utah 84020 (the “Property”).
Please note that vehicle welding repair work also occurs at the Property.

Permitted Use Analysis

The Property is located within the Cranberry Hill subdivision and is zoned as R3. The City Code
includes a definition for “manufacturing, general,” which is defined as the “manufacture of
finished products or parts, predominantly from previously prepared materials, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment and packaging, and incidental storage, sales and/or
distribution of such products.” (emphasis added). Of relevance, the definition of “manufacturing,
limited” indicates that such activities would have “no noise, odor, vibration, or other impacts
discernible outside a building.” (emphasis added).

The welding and fabrication activities occurring at the Property consist of the processing,
fabrication, assembly and treatment of metals, which are subsequently packaged, stored and
eventually sold from the Property. Note that most of the foregoing activities have occurred outside
the dwelling structure, completely discernable from the street. As such, the uses occurring at the
Property are best captured by the definition of “manufacturing, general.”

Pursuant to Table 9-10-1 of the City Code, which provides for the Permitted and Conditional Uses
allowed in Residential Zones, no such “manufacturing, general” or “manufacturing, limited” are
allowed in any residential zone, including the R3 zone. Therefore, the welding and fabrication
manufacturing uses occurring at the Property should be prohibited.

Home Occupation Analysis

Furthermore, the welding and fabrication manufacturing uses occurring at the Property do not fit
within any of the eight enumerated home occupations allowed for under Section 9-34-050.
However, the applicant has tried to argue that the “manufacturing” activities occurring at the
Property result in art, and therefore the business is actually a “cottage business” deserving of a
August 4, 2021
Page 2


“home occupation” designation and associated conditional use permit. However, this attempt to
recharacterize the activities fails for multiple reasons.

First, the definition of “cottage business” is “a business where products are created in the home.”
Additionally, the definition of cottage business provides three examples of products created in
such a business: “handicraft, art, and jewelry.” The Latin cannon of statutory interpretation of
“noscitur a sociis” requires that where a word is ambiguous, its meaning may be determined by
reference to the rest of the statute. Here, to the extent that “art” is ambiguous, the Planning
Commission may look at the words “handicraft” and “jewelry” to determine what was intended by
“art.” The definition of handicraft according to vocabulary.com/dictionary states that “things that
are made with machines or on a large scale aren't considered handicrafts” and instead handicrafts
may include items such as “pottery, handwoven blankets, handmade jewelry, and quilts stitched
by hand.” Additionally, the same website indicates that “jewelry” includes items such as “a
bracelet, ring, necklace, or earrings.”

It is clear that “art” produced in a cottage business was intended to mean small ornamental pieces,
not massive metal works weighing hundreds of pounds and standing six or more feet tall that have
been created by industrial welders and other commercial machines used in metal working
industries.

Second, the manufacturing activities occurring at the Property do not comply with the baseline
requirements of Title 9, Chapter 34 (Home Occupations). As an initial matter, the definition of a
“Home Occupation” is a “commercial or other nonresidential use conducted within a dwelling unit
that is incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes.” (emphasis
added). It is hard to imagine how a welding and fabrication manufacturing operation use occurring
outside the dwelling unit could be “incidental” to the use of a dwelling unit for residential purposes.

Further, Chapter 34 indicates that its purpose is to “ensure that limited business activities allowed
in a residential zone do not disturb the residential character of a neighborhood.” (emphasis added).
As noted below and in the attached pictures, the activities occurring at the Property have greatly
altered and disturbed the residential character of the neighborhood.

Third, even if the welding and fabrication manufacturing operation use was (i) occurring within
the dwelling unit, (ii) was incidental to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes, and
(iii) did not disturb the residential character of the neighborhood, the use would still have to comply
with the development standards set forth in Section 9-34-040, which it does not.

Analysis of § 9-34-040: Development Standards

Pursuant to Section 9-34-030, all home occupation uses must comply with the development
standards of Section 9-34-040. Section 9-34-040 sets certain requirements in subparts A through
Q. As discussed hereinafter, the uses occurring at the Property fundamentally fail to adhere to the
requirements of subparts D, E, F, G, J, L, M and O of Section 9-34-040.
August 4, 2021
Page 3


Section 9-34-040(D) requires that all facilities “shall comply with fire, building, plumbing,
electrical and all other city, county, state and federal codes” with inspections to assure compliance
with regulations.” A cursory review of OSHA standards, Part 1926 subpart J indicate that the
current use does not comply, namely with the requirements around fire prevention and ventilation.
Further, the requirements of the International Fire Code for Compressed Gases are likewise not
being adhered to, namely the requirements around storage of such gases. Additionally, it is hard
to believe that the use of paint-on industrial oxidizers in the driveway and resultant chemical runoff
as shown in Exhibit A could be allowable under various health and safety codes, and is especially
problematic given (i) the City’s obligation to comply with its Small Municipal Separate Storm
Sewer System (MS4) permit and (ii) the City’s strong interest in protecting the countless young
children that play in the area.

Section 9-34-040(E) requires that “no stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed
two hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises” and that “no outside storage is
allowed.” (emphasis added). The entire garage of approximately 500 square feet is chocked full
of materials, inventory and in-process merchandise. Additionally, merchandise sold for sale online
is displayed throughout the front yard, and inventory storage is occurring outside and in the
backyard. Evidence of the foregoing is shown in Exhibit B.

Section 9-34-040(F) requires that (i) “there shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a
dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling,” (ii) “no activities shall
be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home
occupation,” and (iii) “no front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home
occupation.” As shown in Exhibit C, it is completely apparent from the exterior that this business
is being operated, with activities being carried on outside the dwelling, and with parking oftentimes
occurring in the front yard of the home. In fact, the activities outside the home are occurring seven
days per week, for anywhere from 10 to 16 hours per day.

Section 9-34-040(G) requires that “tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the
dwelling which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited. Welding and related activities that generate
smoke and sparks, and the noise from use of an angle grinder are regularly present, as shown in
Exhibit D.

Section 9-34-040(J) requires that “no home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or
vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is located.”
Numerous cars are oftentimes parked in the driveway, on the street, and in the yard, making it
difficult for cars to pass on the street (except in single file) and kids often have to step into the
street when the sidewalks are blocked, all as shown in Exhibit E.

Section 9-34-040(L) requires that “yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall
not be used for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.”
August 4, 2021
Page 4


As shown in Exhibit F, the yards surrounding the Property are used for business activities,
including welding, painting, grinding, oxidizing, material storage, abandoned product storage and
associated display of finished products.

Section 9-34-040(M) states “no customers allowed” in connection with the home occupation.
Upon information and belief, numerous customers often visit the Property, as shown in Exhibit G.

Section 9-34-040(O) requires that the home occupation “be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property.” As shown in Exhibit H, the welding and fabrication
manufacturing operation and non-art vehicle repair and welding uses are conducted in the front
yard, drive way and backyard.

Conclusion

Put simply, the welding and fabrication manufacturing uses and activities occurring at the Property
are commercial uses that are incompatible with the nature of a residential neighborhood and do
not constitute one of the eight enumerated uses that may be labeled as a home occupation. Further,
the uses occurring at the Property fail to satisfy the basic requirements of a home occupation
because: (i) the uses are occurring outside the dwelling unit, (ii) the uses are not incidental to the
use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes, and (iii) the uses are disturbing the residential
character of the neighborhood. Additionally, a CUP under Section 9-34-060 should not be granted
because it would require a near wholesale gutting of the requirements set forth in Section 9-34-
040.

The purposes of the regulations and restrictions of the City Code, as set forth in Section 9-1-030,
clearly demonstrate that the welding and fabrication manufacturing operation uses occurring are
not capable of complying with the requirements of the City Code applicable to the Property,
regardless of any possible conditions imposed, and should therefore be prohibited.

Should you have any questions, please contact me.

Sincerely,


AJ Pepper, Esq.
August 4, 2021
Page 5


                          EXHIBIT A
                 Section 9-34-040(D) Violations




                           Exhibit A
August 4, 2021
Page 6




                 Exhibit A
August 4, 2021
Page 7


                          EXHIBIT B
                 Section 9-34-040(E) Violations




                           Exhibit B
August 4, 2021
Page 8




                 Exhibit B
August 4, 2021
Page 9




                 Exhibit B
August 4, 2021
Page 10


                          EXHIBIT C
                 Section 9-34-040(F) Violations




                           Exhibit C
August 4, 2021
Page 11




                 Exhibit C
August 4, 2021
Page 12




                 Exhibit C
August 4, 2021
Page 13




                 Exhibit C
August 4, 2021
Page 14




                 Exhibit C
August 4, 2021
Page 15


                          EXHIBIT D
                 Section 9-34-040(G) Violations




                           Exhibit D
August 4, 2021
Page 16


                          EXHIBIT E
                 Section 9-34-040(J) Violations




                           Exhibit E
August 4, 2021
Page 17




                 Exhibit E
August 4, 2021
Page 18




                 Exhibit E
August 4, 2021
Page 19


                          EXHIBIT F
                 Section 9-34-040(L) Violations




                           Exhibit F
August 4, 2021
Page 20




                 Exhibit F
August 4, 2021
Page 21


                          EXHIBIT G
                 Section 9-34-040(M) Violations




                           Exhibit G
August 4, 2021
Page 22


                          EXHIBIT H
                 Section 9-34-040(O) Violations




                           Exhibit H
August 4, 2021
Page 23




                 Exhibit H
August 4, 2021
Page 24




                 Exhibit H
From:                      Lynda Bigelow <walter2111@gmail.com>
Sent:                      Wednesday, August 4, 2021 12:31 PM
To:                        Travis Van Ekelenburg
Subject:                   376 Thornberry Dr

Dear Travis:
I spoke to you yesterday at City Hall regarding the application for a conditional use permit at 376
Thornberry Dr. I appreciate your taking the time to help me understand the process and I am glad to
hear that you will convey the concerns of myself and other neighbors to the Draper Planning
Commission.
I hope that the Commission denies the Conditional use permit. I live close by and I am very worried
about what the homeowner has been doing in the past and what he would like to do in the future. He
has been running an industrial business without proper oversight in a residential neighborhood. This has
created safety issues arising from chemical runoff and fire hazards as well as traffic hazards arising from
the unusually high number of cars and vans parked in the driveway and in front of the house on
Thornberry Dr. This has led to obstructed sidewalks, diminished visibility for drivers, the reduction of
traffic lanes from two down to just one on a street that serves as a major access road for the Cranberry
Hill neighborhood. This also creates potential danger for the many young children that live in the
neighborhood who may not be able to see traffic, and, due to so many parked cars and large
vans, drivers being unable to see small children.
Even more concerning is the nature of the homeowner’s business. He constructs large iron and steel
objects and welds and repairs metal structures in his driveway. The entire garage is filled with large
pieces of equipment related to this and the garage is left open most of the time. The machinery is noisy
and creates fumes and flames. There is runoff from the cutting and welding of iron, steel and other
metals, runoff from the coatings that are then applied to the metal. These chemicals are now draining
into our community water system. The chemicals and scrap are going into our landfill. There is nothing
to prevent young children from possibly exploring this set-up. Our homes are relatively close to one
another- in the event of a fire it could spread very quickly to surrounding homes. The backyard is filled
with debris from the metal working, which could be leaching chemicals or toxins into the soil.

This is not a business that belongs in a residential, family-friendly neighborhood. There are safety
hazards, chemical hazards, and traffic hazards that cannot be managed in a residential neighborhood.
This is a business that belongs in an industrial park.
Thank you for conveying my concerns to the Commission,
Lynda Bigelow
From:                      Tamara Stokes <tamarastokes@yahoo.com>
Sent:                      Tuesday, August 3, 2021 12:02 AM
To:                        Travis Van Ekelenburg
Subject:                   Permit for 376 Thornberry

As a fellow resident in Cranberry Hill neighborhood I’d prefer that the permit for residence 376
Thornberry be denied so they cannot run a commercial business out of their home.
Thank you,

Tamara Stokes
11582 Olive Berry
