Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: February 2, 2021
Re: Ordinance #1476 Adopting a Temporary Land Use Regulation for Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinics Comments: The attached ordinance is the result of informal requests for staff to look into ways that Draper City can support efforts related to increasing the availability of medical testing and analysis services and/or vaccinations related to the COVID-19 global pandemic.
Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-504 allows the City Council, without prior consideration of or recommendation from the Planning Commission, to enact an ordinance establishing a temporary land use regulation for any part or all of the area within the municipality if the City Council makes a finding of compelling, countervailing public interest or the area is unregulated.
Such a temporary land use regulation may prohibit or regulate the erection, construction, reconstruction, or alteration of any building or structure or any subdivision approval.
Enacting the proposed  temporary land use ordinance would allow Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinics to set up drive-through services  as a temporary use   on existing commercial sites for the convenience of the citizens of Draper City. The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The City Council finds a compelling, countervailing public interest in enacting the temporary land use regulation.
2. The City Council finds the proposed ordinance is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper.
3. The City Council finds that the promulgated temporary land use regulations ensure compliance with local and state orders while simultaneously protecting the citizens of Draper.
For Denial:
1. The City Council does not find a compelling, countervailing public interest in enacting the temporary land use regulation.
2. The City Council does not find the proposed ordinance to be in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper.
3. The City Council does not find that the promulgated temporary land use regulations will comply with local and state orders while simultaneously protecting the citizens of Draper. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1476 1/27/2021 Cover Memo