                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                        July 7, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: July 22, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Scalar Office Expansion – Site Plan Amendment Request
        Application No.: SPR-0016-2021
        Applicant:        Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design, Green Shoot Holdings
                          LLC, and Scalar LLC.
        Project Location: Approximately 874 E. Pioneer Rd.
        Current Zoning: TC (Town Center) Zone
        Acreage:          Approximately 1.34 Acres (Approximately 58,370 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment in the TC zone
                          regarding expansion of an existing office building.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment for approximately 1.34
acres located on the south side of Pioneer Rd., at approximately 874 E. Pioneer Rd. (Exhibit
B). The property is currently zoned TC. The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan
Amendment be approved to allow for the expansion of the existing office building on site.

The existing building was originally constructed as the offices of the South Valley Sewer
District in 1986, before being sold to Green Shoot Holdings in 2016. The property consists
of two parcels, the main portion being Lot 1 of the South Valley Sewer District Subdivision
recorded August 11, 2015 (Exhibit L). The secondary parcel is a narrow strip of land located
just south of the southern property line of lot 1 that was part of an inadvertent remainder
parcel that was created when the South Valley Sewer District subdivision was recorded.
This parcel was subsequently deeded to Green Shoot Holdings from the adjacent property
owner, Draper Building LLC in 2019. This narrow parcel equals 0.02 acres.



Scalar Office Expansion                                             App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                  1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Town Center
land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is characterized as
follows:




The property has been assigned the TC zoning classification, supporting office and
commercial uses and in up to six (6) dwelling units per acre (Exhibit D) in this location.
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the TC
zone is to “provide a method for implementing special provisions found within the general plan
and the Draper City conservation area master plan regarding the establishment and promotion
of a historic core area of the community characterized by stringent design standards for
buildings, public spaces, site design and landscaping with a harmonious mix of commercial uses,
limited high density residential uses and civic areas” The TC zone abuts the subject property
on all sides.




Scalar Office Expansion                                               App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    2
Site Plan Layout. The existing single level building is approximately 6,615 ft2 in size and is
located roughly in the center of the site (Exhibit E). The proposed addition would attach to
the existing building on the east and extend to within fifteen feet (15’) of the right-of-way
line along 900 East in compliance with the setback requirements of the TC zone. The
proposed addition would also extend towards the northern property line and Pioneer Rd.,
however due to the proximity to the overhead power line, the façade needs to be set back
twenty feet (20’) from the property line, which does not comply with the setback
requirements of the TC zone. The applicant is requesting a deviation from this setback
requirement under the provisions of DCMC Section 9-11-090(E)(2) (Exhibit K).

Site Design Standards Modification. Subsection 9-11-090(E)(2) of the DCMC makes provisions
for the Planning Commission to authorize approval without meeting strict compliance with
the terms of the Code regarding the development design standards of the TC zone. DCMC
Section 9-11-090(E)(2) states: “In the event that the existing constraints of the site prevent the
reasonable compliance of the site and/or structure, the Planning Commission may approve the
site and redevelopment thereof as being compliant to the greatest extent possible.” This is
based on making certain required findings per DCMC Section 9-11-090(E)(2)(a) through (d):

        a. The constraints of the site do not lend themselves to achieving full compliance with
        the terms of this section and have complied to the greatest extent possible;
        b. The development meets the intent of the general plan and the terms of this section;
        c. The development is harmonious with surrounding development; and
        d. Adequate provisions have been made to improve the site beyond the minimum
        requirements of the TC zoning classification.

With respect to the applicants request to not strictly comply with the setback requirements
for the façade, the overhead power line on the north side of the property does create a site
constraint that does not lend itself to achieving full compliance with the ordinance in
reference to criterion a. above. The development does meet the intent of the general plan
Town Center land use designation and TC zone in that it provides for the adaptive reuse of
an existing structure and enhances the traditional Town Center character with an
architectural design that will harmonize with other surrounding development fulfilling
criteria b. and c. of the above criteria for findings. Criterion d. is also met as the overall
landscaped area for the site will be approximately double the minimum requirement.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The landscaping plan (Exhibit F) complies with the
requirements of the TC zone and has approximately 10% landscaping within the parking
area and 30% landscape coverage of the overall site. Outdoor amenities are provided on
the site including a basketball court and outdoor seating areas located on the rooftop
patios. There are four (4) Healthy mature trees that will be removed as part of the planned
construction of the building and parking expansions. These trees will be replaced on the
site by thirty-eight (38) additional trees in compliance with the requirements of the TC zone.
A majority of these replacement trees will be Taylor Junipers placed near the baseline of



Scalar Office Expansion                                                 App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                     3
the basketball court to provide significant screening between the court and the adjacent
residential property.

Parking. According to the site plan (Exhibit E), small expansions of the existing paved
parking area on the west and the south will be made to accommodate additional on-site
parking. Parking on the north between the existing building and the street will remain
unchanged as new parking is not permitted between the building façade and the front
property lines. Pavement areas and drive aisles on the east of the existing building will be
removed as part of the proposed building expansion. The required parking for a general
office building is four (4) spaces per one-thousand square feet (1,000 ft2) of gross floor
area. The reported gross building floor area including the proposed expansion is 19,939 ft2
which would require a parking range of 72-88 parking stalls. The proposed site plan layout
is only able to provide 55 parking stalls while maintaining compliance with other site plan
layout requirements. The applicant has provided a parking study (Exhibit J) and is
requesting a deviation from strict compliance with the required parking stall count.

Parking Modification. Chapter 25 of the DCMC makes provisions for the Planning
Commission to authorize a deviation to the strict compliance with the terms of the Code
regarding the calculation of the minimum number of required parking spaces. DCMC
Section 9-25-090 states that the number of parking spaces may be modified to provide
flexibility beyond the 10% +/- allowed in DCMC in order to adapt to specific circumstances,
reduce potential environmental impacts, and conserve resources. The deviation to strict
compliance is justified based upon a parking study submitted by the applicant (Exhibit J).
The study shows the parking generation anticipated for a single tenant office building by
the Institute of Transportation Engineers is 3.10 stalls per gross floor area and 0.78 stalls
per employee. This equals a need for 62 stalls and 51 stalls, respectfully. In order to
approve a deviation to strict compliance with the parking requirements of the DCMC, the
Planning Commission must make findings based on the type of use under application. For
the subject application, DCMC Section 9-25-090(C)(4) states:

       a. For commercial, retail, office, and mixed use developments, the planning commission
          must find that:
             (1) Adequate parking will be provided;
             (2) The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each
                 individual establishment in the development is overly burdensome for the site
                 specific factors of the application;
             (3) Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others are closed
                 will not overburden the parking provided;
             (4) There is an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all
                 associated uses;
             (5) Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with the
                 parking calculation used or parking requirements outlined in section 9-25-100,
                 table 9-25-1 of this chapter;



Scalar Office Expansion                                                 App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                     4
              (6) Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, provide
                  adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking; and
              (7) Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have or
                  will provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition;
              (8) ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment;

Architecture. The proposed architecture of the building has been reviewed by the Historic
Preservation Commission in accordance with the requirements of the TC zone (Exhibits G
and H). The Historic Preservation Commission discussed the proposal at their May 19, 2021
meeting and approved a motion that the proposed plans be forwarded to the Planning
Commission as proposed with no recommended changes. Members of the Historic
Preservation Commission expressed support for the extensive use of brick with pre-cast
concrete caps and details, especially the curved window designs. Historic Preservation
Commission members also appreciated the effort put into the landscaping design also.

Some elements of the proposed architecture do not strictly comply with the requirements
of the TC zone. The following architectural design requirements are required by the TC
zone (DCMC 9-11-090):

        9-11-090(D)(2)(d) Building Orientation: Buildings within the TC zone shall have their
        architectural orientation toward the front property line of the site which includes having
        at least one functioning entry door oriented to the street. Buildings on corner lot sites
        shall have an architectural orientation toward each right-of-way frontage with the
        appearance of building entry points along each front facade. Buildings shall also have an
        entrance oriented toward the parking area associated with that building.

        9-11-090(D)(2)(e) Transparency: In order to create a more friendly and pedestrian
        oriented environment for the area, all buildings shall have a minimum of fifty percent
        (50%) each building facade which faces a public or private right-of-way consisting of
        windows and doors on the ground level. Side and rear facades shall have a minimum of
        fifty percent (50%) transparency if they face upon a parking area or a pedestrian or
        vehicular pathway. Other facades shall have a minimum twenty five percent (25%)
        transparency. Tinted or mirrored glass shall not be allowed on the ground floor.

The proposed building does have a main entrance to the building on the north side of the
façade that faces the street rather than the adjacent parking, however, there are no
entrances or architectural details creating the appearance of an entrance on the proposed
eastern façade facing the street (Exhibits G and H). The applicant has requested that the
Planning Commission approve the architectural design as proposed without a functioning
entry door or the appearance of building entry points along each front façade (See Exhibit
K).




Scalar Office Expansion                                                  App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                      5
The south facing façade of the proposed addition does not comply with the transparency
requirements of 9-11-090(D)(2)(e) that requires a minimum fifty percent (50%) transparency
when facing a parking area or a pedestrian or vehicular pathway (Exhibits G and H). The
façade of the planned addition at the ground level facing the parking area and the adjacent
pedestrian and vehicular pathway has an approximate transparency of twenty-five and one
half percent (25.5%). The applicant has requested that the Planning Commission approve
the architectural design as proposed without requiring additional transparency on the
south side of the proposed addition (See Exhibit K).

Architectural Design Standards Modification. Subsection 9-11-090(E)(2) of the DCMC makes
provisions for the Planning Commission to authorize approval without meeting strict
compliance with the terms of the Code regarding the development design standards of the
TC zone. DCMC Section 9-11-090(E)(2) states: “In the event that the existing constraints of the
site prevent the reasonable compliance of the site and/or structure, the Planning Commission
may approve the site and redevelopment thereof as being compliant to the greatest extent
possible.” This is based on making certain required findings per DCMC Section 9-11-
090(E)(2)(a) through (d):

        a. The constraints of the site do not lend themselves to achieving full compliance with
        the terms of this section and have complied to the greatest extent possible;
        b. The development meets the intent of the general plan and the terms of this section;
        c. The development is harmonious with surrounding development; and
        d. Adequate provisions have been made to improve the site beyond the minimum
        requirements of the TC zoning classification.

The applicant has requested Planning Commission acceptance and approval under the
provisions of DCMC Section 9-11-090(E)(2). The applicant has also requested approval of a
deviation from the main entry requirements of 9-22-050(A)(5). Whereas the requirements
of DCMC Chapter 9-22 are considered supplementary to those contained in DCMC Chapter
9-11, the findings in 9-11-090(E)(2) would precede any need for a specific deviation from 9-
22-050(A)(5) and the Planning Commission only need consider the criteria listed in 9-11-
090(E)(2) when authorizing approval of plans that do not strictly comply with the TC zone.

With respect to the applicants request to not strictly comply with the architectural design
standards of ordinance and criterion a. above, the related site constraints are more closely
tied to the building typology and functionality than the physical conditions of the property.
The TC zone concept assumes a more retail and multiple tenant focus in the design of new
commercial buildings in requiring the creation of the appearance of storefront bays and
entryways along each façade. Where this site and the existing building have historically
been utilized by a single tenant as a corporate office, an architectural design creating the
appearance of a multiple tenant building would be counterintuitive and could be viewed as
creating an unnecessary constraint. Furthermore the proposed architectural design does
contain several design elements that help to create a cohesive neighborhood tie-in to the



Scalar Office Expansion                                                 App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                     6
adjacent historic Park School Building to the east. The development does meet the intent of
the general plan Town Center land use designation and TC zone in that it provides for the
adaptive reuse of an existing structure and enhances the traditional Town Center character
with an architectural design that will harmonize with other surrounding development
fulfilling criteria b. and c. of the above criteria for findings. Criterion d. is also met as the
overall landscaped area for the site will be approximately double the minimum
requirement.

Lighting. The exterior lighting plan (Exhibit I) complies with the requirements of Chapter 20
of the DCMC. Lighting will not exceed 0.2 foot candles as measured at the property line
adjacent to the neighboring residential use. Lighting will be full cutoff type fixtures and be
directed downwards. Light poles near the parking areas will be 19 feet tall. All exterior
lights will be turned off automatically after hours to comply with the after-hours
illumination requirements of ordinance.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan
Amendment request is found in Sections 9-5-090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site
           plan:
           1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
              approved.
           2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
              not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
              building materials.
           3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
              general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
           4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
              development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
           5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
              Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage,
              and utilities concerns.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Site Plan Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan Amendment submission.



Scalar Office Expansion                                                     App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                       7
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Site Plan Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC and Simon
Associates LLC., in working with the Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, have
completed their reviews of the geotechnical and geologic hazards report submitted as a
part of the Site Plan Amendment. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Historic Preservation Commission Review. The Draper City Historic Preservation Commission
has completed their review of the Site Plan Amendment submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
           Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
           and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
        2. That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
           development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
        3. That the building be constructed in substantial compliance with the plans
           presented to the Planning Commission.
        4. That the total number of employees employed at or utilizing the office building
           be limited to no more than sixty (60) full time employees and five (5) interns.




Scalar Office Expansion                                              App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   8
Site Design Standards Modification – Front Setback
The findings for approval of a modification from site design standards to allow more than
forty percent (40%) of a street facing façade to be located further back that fifteen feet (15’)
from a front property line line is as follows:

        1. The constraints of the site do not lend themselves to achieving full compliance
           with the terms of the TC zone and have complied to the greatest extent possible;
        2. The development meets the intent of the general plan and the terms of the TC
           zone;
        3. The development is harmonious with surrounding development; and
        4. Adequate provisions have been made to improve the site beyond the minimum
           requirements of the TC zoning classification.

The findings for denial of a modification from site design standards to allow more than
forty percent (40%) of a street facing façade to be located further back that fifteen feet (15’)
from a front property line is as follows:

        1. The constraints of the site do not preclude achieving full compliance with the
           terms of the TC zone;
        2. The proposed development does not meet the intent of the general plan or the
           terms of the TC zone;
        3. The proposed development is not harmonious with surrounding development;
           and
        4. Adequate provisions have not been made to improve the site beyond the
           minimum requirements of the TC zoning classification.

Architectural Design Standards Modification – Entry Doors
The findings for approval of a modification from architectural design standards to allow for
a street facing façades that do not contain an entry door or the appearance of an entry
door are as follows:

        1. The constraints of the site do not lend themselves to achieving full compliance
           with the terms of the TC zone and have complied to the greatest extent possible;
        2. The development meets the intent of the general plan and the terms of the TC
           zone;
        3. The development is harmonious with surrounding development; and
        4. Adequate provisions have been made to improve the site beyond the minimum
           requirements of the TC zoning classification.

The findings for denial of a modification from architectural design standards to allow for a
street facing façades that do not contain an entry door or the appearance of an entry door
are as follows:




Scalar Office Expansion                                                App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    9
        1. The constraints of the site do not preclude achieving full compliance with the
           terms of the TC zone;
        2. The proposed development does not meet the intent of the general plan or the
           terms of the TC zone;
        3. The proposed development is not harmonious with surrounding development;
           and
        4. Adequate provisions have not been made to improve the site beyond the
           minimum requirements of the TC zoning classification.

Architectural Design Standards Modification – Transparency
The findings for approval of a modification from architectural design standards to allow for
a building façade that faces a parking area to have less than fifty percent (50%) transparent
are as follows:

        1. The constraints of the site do not lend themselves to achieving full compliance
           with the terms of the TC zone and have complied to the greatest extent possible;
        2. The development meets the intent of the general plan and the terms of the TC
           zone;
        3. The development is harmonious with surrounding development; and
        4. Adequate provisions have been made to improve the site beyond the minimum
           requirements of the TC zoning classification.

The findings for denial of a modification from architectural design standards to allow for a
building façade that faces a parking area to have less than fifty percent (50%) transparent
are as follows:

        1. The constraints of the site do not preclude achieving full compliance with the
           terms of the TC zone;
        2. The proposed development does not meet the intent of the general plan or the
           terms of the TC zone;
        3. The proposed development is not harmonious with surrounding development;
           and
        4. Adequate provisions have not been made to improve the site beyond the
           minimum requirements of the TC zoning classification.

Deviation from Parking Requirements
The findings for approval of the deviation from parking stall count are as follows:

        1. Adequate parking will be provided;
        2. The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required in the
           development is overly burdensome for the site specific factors of the
           application;




Scalar Office Expansion                                              App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   10
        3. There is an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all
           associated uses;
        4. Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with the
           parking calculation used or parking requirements outlined in section 9-25-100,
           table 9-25-1 of the DCMC;
        5. Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, provide
           adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking;
        6. Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have or
           will provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition; and
        7. ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment.

The findings for denial of the deviation from parking stall count are as follows:

        1. Adequate parking will not be provided;
        2. The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required in the
           development is not overly burdensome for the site specific factors of the
           application;
        3. There is not an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for
           all associated uses;
        4. Site or use specific conditions or factors are able to provide for compliance with
           the parking calculation used or parking requirements outlined in section 9-25-
           100, table 9-25-1 of this chapter;
        5. Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, do not
           provide adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking;
        6. Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will not have
           or will not provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition; and

Site Plan Amendment
The findings for approval of the site plan amendment are as follows:

        1. The proposal represents development of the entire site at one time.
        2. The proposed plans conform to applicable standards set forth in DCMC Title 9,
           including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
           landscaping, and building materials.
        3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
           general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
        4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
           development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
        5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found
           in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water
           drainage, and utilities concerns.

The findings for denial of the site plan amendment as are follows:



Scalar Office Expansion                                               App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   11
        1. The proposed plans do not conform to applicable standards set forth in DCMC
           Title 9, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
           parking, landscaping, and building materials.
        2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives
           of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is
           located.
        3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the
           subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
        4. The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering
           standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic,
           storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.



MODEL MOTIONS

Site Development Standards Modification – Front Setback
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Development Standard
Modification from front setback, as requested by Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design,
Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the Scalar Office Expansion, application SPR-
0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated July 7, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Site Development
Standard Modification from front setback, as requested by Wes Baker, representing
Babcock Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the Scalar Office Expansion,
application SPR-0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated July 7, 2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Development Standard
Modification from front setback, as requested by Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design,
Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the Scalar Office Expansion, application SPR-
0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated July 7, 2021.

Architectural Development Standard Modification – Entry Doors
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Architectural Development
Standard Modification from entry doors, as requested by Wes Baker, representing Babcock
Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the Scalar Office Expansion,
application SPR-0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated July 7, 2021.



Scalar Office Expansion                                               App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   12
Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Architectural
Development Standard Modification from entry doors, as requested by Wes Baker,
representing Babcock Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the Scalar
Office Expansion, application SPR-0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 7, 2021 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Architectural Development Standard
Modification from entry doors, as requested by Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design,
Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the Scalar Office Expansion, application SPR-
0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated July 7, 2021.

Architectural Development Standard Modification – Transparency
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Architectural Development
Standard Modification for transparency, as requested by Wes Baker, representing Babcock
Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the Scalar Office Expansion,
application SPR-0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated July 7, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Architectural
Development Standard Modification for transparency, as requested by Wes Baker,
representing Babcock Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the Scalar
Office Expansion, application SPR-0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 7, 2021 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Architectural Development Standard
Modification for transparency, as requested by Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design,
Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the Scalar Office Expansion, application SPR-
0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated July 7, 2021.

Parking Deviation
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Parking Deviation, as requested
by Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for
the Scalar Office Expansion, application SPR-0016-2021, based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 7, 2021.



Scalar Office Expansion                                              App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   13
Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Parking Deviation, as
requested by Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and
Scalar LLC for the Scalar Office Expansion, application SPR-0016-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 7, 2021 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Parking Deviation, as requested by
Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the
Scalar Office Expansion, application SPR-0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 7, 2021.

Site Plan Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan Amendment, as
requested by Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and
Scalar LLC for the Scalar Office Expansion, application SPR-0016-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 7, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Site Plan Amendment,
as requested by Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and
Scalar LLC for the Scalar Office Expansion, application SPR-0016-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 7, 2021 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan Amendment, as requested by
Wes Baker, representing Babcock Design, Green Shoot Holdings LLC, and Scalar LLC for the
Scalar Office Expansion, application SPR-0016-2021, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 7, 2021.




Scalar Office Expansion                                              App. # SPR-0016-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   14
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      While the parking study complies with ordinance requirements pertaining
               to the requested deviation, the study utilizes the much lower average
               parking rate listed in the parking manual and an even lower rate based on
               employee count in calculating and making recommendations. Typically
               demand calculations would utilize the 85th percentile rate. The average
               number of parking spaces required for a single tenant office building per
               the parking study would be a minimum of 62 spaces, which this site does
               not provide. If the parking deviation is approved, staff recommends adding
               as a condition of approval that the number of employees of the business
               be limited to the 65 total employees identified and used in the calculations
               for the parking study.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement are now required for every
               private storm drainage system, per DCMC 16-2-170. Submission of the
               maintenance plan is now required prior to site approval. The maintenance
               agreement is a condition of approval; it is required to be recorded and
               returned to the city prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit for
               construction of the site.
       2.      Provide service letters from South Valley Sewer District (SVSD) and
               WaterPro per DCMC 9-5-090(D)(1)(d)(3)(E).
       3.      Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required
               prior to construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the
               Engineering Division
       4.      Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit
               obtained through the Engineering Division.
       5.      Remove orifice requirement on detail 7 on sheet C502. Orifice is shown in
               detail 12 on sheet C501.
       6.      Use WaterPro details for water system.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.
Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

       1.      Geotechnical Submittal Complete.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road
               width of twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum
               height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must
               be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
               apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving
               capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight
               (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be
               checked prior to building permits being issued.

       2.      Fire Hydrants are required. Hydrants are required for this project. They
               shall be protected with bollards if susceptible to vehicle damage. 1
               Hydrant is required.

       3.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable
               temporary Fire Department Access to the site shall be installed and
               APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the issuance of any Building
               Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or
               temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all
               permits could be revoked.

       4.      No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation
               and testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to
               any combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.

       5.      Fire Department Connection Location. The FDC shall be on the street side
               of each building and shall be located and arranged so that hose lines can
               be readily and conveniently attached to the inlets without interference
               from any nearby objects including buildings, fences, posts, or other fire
               department connections.

       6.      Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler
               shop drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
               don.buckley@draperutah.gov . A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
               cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET
               level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant
               within 100 feet of the FDC) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps.
               ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE
               SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
            7.      Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no
                    designated fire riser room with a direct access door from the outside.
                    There shall be either a wall mounted P.I.V (OS&Y) or a typical P.I.V placed
                    a minimum distance of 40 feet from the building with a tamper switch.

            8.      Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings
                    are to be sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at
                    don.buckley@draperutah.gov . A complete set of plans, with
                    manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be
                    stamped by a NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE
                    ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO
                    THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

            9.      Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be
                    mounted to exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the
                    door serving the exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a
                    height of 5 feet to the top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged
                    by the General Contractor. See attached information form.

            10.     2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
                    serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers
                    need to be located in a conspicuous location where they will be readily
                    accessible and immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of
                    travel. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be
                    mounted so that the top is not more than five (5) feet above the floor.

            11.     Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have
                    approved address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street
                    fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their
                    background.

Historic Preservation Commission Review.

       1.         No additional comments
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1    SHEET KEY NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PIONEER RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVIDE, INSTALL, AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR REFERENCED, THE DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOTED, AND/OR AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.  PAINT STRIPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.  CONCRETE SIDEWALK/FLATWORK (6/C501)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.  ASPHALT PAVEMENT (1/C501)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.  ADA PARKING SIGN (3/C502)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.  18" SPILL CURB & GUTTER (8/C501)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.  CONCRETE TRASH ENCLOSURE PAD (2/C501). SEE                                      Salt Lake City
                        PL                        PL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR ADDITIONAL DETAILS                                  52 Exchange Place
                                                                    PL   e                            PL                         e   PL                            PL        e                    PL       e       PL            PL       e             PL                   e             PL                     PL       e                       e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7. 30" CURB AND GUTTER, MATCH EXISTING (10/C501)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Salt Lake City, UT 84111
                                                                                     11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL             PL             PL        e                  PL          e         PL                              e                            e            8. PRESERVE AND PROTECT EXISTING TREE
                                                                                                                                              E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9. 18" CATCH CURB & GUTTER (7/C501)                                                 801.531.1144
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10. EXISTING DRIVEWAY APPROACH
                                                                                                                                                      11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11. EXISTING POWER BOX                                                                  Boise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12. CONCRETE BASKETBALL PAD (6/C501)                                              800 W MAIN STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13. EXISTING FIRE HYDRANT
      PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14. CONNECT TO EXISTING WATER LINE PER WATERPRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUITE 940
                                                                                                                         5                                                                                                                                                                        5.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                  STANDARDS (11/C501) (1/C503) (2/C503)                                           BOISE, ID 83702
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15. EXISTING SEWER - CLEAN OUT                                                       208.424.7675




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PL
                                                                                                                             R9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16. CONNECT TO EXISTING SEWER SERVICE PER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                       9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STANDARDS (1/C502)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    babcockdesign.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17. 4" SEWER SERVICE (1/C502)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18. 2" WATER METER & VAULT PER WATER PRO STANDARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (2/C502)
                                 9




                                                                                                                                                  e
                                                       R6.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19. 6" FIRE LINE
      PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20. DRAINAGE SWALE (4/C501)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               num.         description                   date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21. 36" WATERWAY (3/C501)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22. PROPOSED GAS SERVICE LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PL
                                                                                                                                                               3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    23. 6" TYPE P CURB (5/C501)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  46.20' of 4" @ 2.00%                                                                                                                                                                                                              24. SETBACK LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16                                                                 17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS                         SS                              SS                                                                                                                                                                                     25. BIKE RACK - SEE LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26. WHEEL STOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31                                                                                                                                                                                27. LIGHT POLE (SEE LIGHTING PLAN)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      28. FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION (FDC). (SEE
      PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARCHITECTURAL PLAN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29. VEHICLE CHARGING STATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20                                                           30. GATE VALVE (11/C501)
                                                                                                                 23          R3.0'




                                                                                                                                                       e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    31. SEWER CLEAN OUT (1/C502)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL
                                                                                                R7.5'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.       CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING UTILITY
                                                                                              27.1'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOCATIONS AND CONTACT ENGINEER IF DIFFERENT FROM
      PL




                                                                                                                                                                                             26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOCATIONS DISPLAYED ON THESE PLANS.
                                                                                                              20.6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.       ALL CONSTRUCTION SHALL COMPLY WITH SOUTH VALLEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEWER DISTRICT'S DESIGN STANDARDS AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12/14/2020 4:16:58 PM
                                                                                                                                                                             5.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                  27                                                                                                                                          4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.       CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY LOCATIONS AND INVERT
                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELEVATIONS OF EXISTING MANHOLES AND OTHER UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                                               e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BEFORE STAKING OR CONSTRUCTING ANY NEW SEWER
                                                                             R3.0'                                                                                                      27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LINES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               4            15                         27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.       FOUR FEET OF COVER IS REQUIRED OVER ALL SEWER LINES.
     PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.       ALL ON SITE SEWER, STORM DRAIN AND CULINARY WATER
                               2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LINES SHALL BE INSTALLED PER UTILITY TRENCHING DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (5/C502).




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.       CONSTRUCTION TYPE: V-B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROPOSED BUILDING                                                                                                                           OCCUPANCY: BUSINESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6,733 SF                                                                                                                                    FIRE FLOW: 3500 GPM
                                     R3.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              875 GPM (75% REDUCTION)
                        8.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.       WATER INFRASTRUCTURE TO BE INSTALLED PER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                     R3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WATERPRO SPECIFICATIONS
     PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.       OPEN SPACE CALCULATIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                        e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           900 E
                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPEN SPACE CALCULATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL
                                                                                          1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL GROSS AREA:                             1.33 acres (57,727 sq. ft.)
                                                                                                                                                                        27                                                                        EXISTING BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IMPERVIOUS SURFACES                 27,137 sq. ft. (47%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6,615 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LANDSCAPE (PERVIOUS SURFACES)       17,266 sq. ft. (30%)
     PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING FLOOR AREA                 13,324 sq. ft. (23%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *TOTAL FLOOR AREA                   19,939 sq. ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                                                                 e




                                                                    3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PARKING LOT TOTALS:
                                                                                                                                                                        11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING LOT TOTAL AREA              24,734 sq. ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING             2,621 sq. ft. (10.6%)
                                                                                                                                                                                    E
     PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL
                             9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18

                                                                             R3.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25                                                                                                                              W                                             19,939                        79.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                  27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
 PL




                                                                                                                  5.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    55
                                                                                              12.4'                                                                                                                     G             G                      G                                G                   G                      G              G              G                        G                    G                                G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     19
                                                                         23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2W              FIRE FLOW: 3500 GPM
                                     R3.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                          18.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6W             6W       6W          6W                      6W       6W            6W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30
 PL




                16.0'                                                                                 R9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27
                                                                                                 R3.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL
                                     R3.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e
                                                                                                                                                       9.0'                                                                                                                               23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R1.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R1.5'

                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
 PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R3.0'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PL
                                                       6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15.0'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e
 PL




                                                  R3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R3.0'                                                                                                                                                                            13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PL             PL             PL                       PL                   PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PL




                                                                                                                                                                        9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PL
PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CIVIL SITE AND UTILITY PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29
                                                                    PL                                PL                             PL                            PL                             PL           PL                PL                     PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PL
PL




                                                               PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PL
                                     12
PL




                                                               PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0          10'          20'
PL




                                                               PL




           PL                                PL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PL
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Salt Lake City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           52 Exchange Place
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Salt Lake City, UT 84111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               801.531.1144

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Boise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   800 W MAIN STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUITE 940
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOISE, ID 83702
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      208.424.7675

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             babcockdesign.com

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sheet information:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  revisions: x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                num.                                      description                                          date




                                                                                                                                  12                                                         12          PIONEER ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  date:                                         01 JULY 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  project number:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  project status:
                                                                                                                                                13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                original drawing is 30" x 42"
                                                                                                                  PL        PL             PL          PL   PL   PL       PL        PL            PL         PL             PL            PL                                                                                                                                                                                                      current as of:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PL            PL            PL          PL        PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5                                                                                                                     The information and content represented herein is considered by law
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the architect's instruments of service and are the property of Babcock
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1                                                                                                                                                               Design. They are available for limited review and evaluation by clients,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                consultants, contractors, government agencies, vendors, and office
                                                                                      1
                                                                                                        PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                personnel only in accordance with this notice. They are intended for use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                only for the project specified and are to be used for no other purpose or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                project including additions to or modification of the completed project.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                No part thereof may be copied, reproduced, photographed, modified,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                published, uploaded, transmitted, disclosed, sold, distributed to others in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                any way including in digital form, or otherwise used without the prior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                written consent of Babcock Design.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEAD TREE TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COPYRIGHT © 2019 BABCOCK DESIGN
                                                                                                    PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                   TO BE REMOVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  stamp:
                                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          stamp:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TE OF UTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING FLOWERING PEAR                                                                                                                                                                                                    TA
                                                                                                    PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TREE TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       07.01.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JACOB A.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19" CAL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HI T E C T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L IC E NS E D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING GOLDEN RAIN                                                                                                                                       HENDRICKSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HENDRICKSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TREE TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10" CAL.                                                                                                                                                       10110348
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          101103 48
                                                                                                    PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SCALAR ADDITION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ND S C A P E A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                    PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  project information:

                                                                                  6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               for:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              900 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SCALAR OFFICE EXPANSION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             874 PIONEER RD
                                                                                                                                        EXISTING MAPLE
                                                                                                   PL




                                                                                                                                        TREE TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                           REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                               9.5" CAL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SYMBOL              DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                    EXISTING SCALAR BUILDING                                                                                9
                                                                                                   PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1              CONCRETE MOWSTRIP - 6"X6"

                                                                                                                                                                               11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTING GOLDEN RAIN         2              BASKETBALL/PICKLEBALL COURT - SEE DETAIL FOR DIMENSIONS
                                                                                                                                 EXISTING SWEETGUM                                                                                                                                                                       TREE TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                     TREE TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AND NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING FLOWERING PEAR                                     10" CAL.
                                                                                                                                             8" CAL.                                                                                                10
                                                                                      1                                                                                                                                                                          TREE TO BE REMOVED
                                                                                                   PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12" CAL.                                                                 3              EXISTING FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4              POTENENTIAL FUTURE SIGN LOCATION (NOT TO EXCEED 24 S.F.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5              SIGHT TRIANGLE - 30` X 30`
                                                                                                   PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6              EXISTING CONCRETE PAD AND STEPS- SEE CIVIL PLANS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7              APROXIMATE TREE CANOPY OF TREES ON NEIGHBORING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROPERTY (CONTRACTOR TO FIELD VERIFY). RAISE TREE
                                                                                               PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8                                                                        CANOPY TO 15` MIN (WHERE IT INTERFERES WITH NEW TREES)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BY PRUNING (PER ISA RECOMMENDATIONS). ONLY REMOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7                                                                                                        LIMBS WITHIN PROPERTY. GET APPROVAL FROM NEIGHBOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13                                                  BEFORE RAISING CANOPY.
                                                                                               PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8              CONNECT TO NEW BUILDING SUPPLY LINE FOR NEW IRRIGATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SYSTEM PER ALL APPLICABLE PLUMBING CODES AND
                                                                                                                                                                                         7                                                                                                                                                                           REGULATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12
                                                                                               PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PL            PL            PL          PL        PL                                                   9              LOW POINT OF SWALE. SEE CIVIL GRADING PLAN.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10                 BICYCLE RACK - IN-GROUND "BRCS-105" FROM VICTOR STANLEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING GOLDEN RAIN                                                                          OR APPROVED EQUAL WITH BLACK POWDER COAT FINISH -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TREE TO BE REMOVED                                                                           INSTALLED PER MANUFACTURER`S RECOMMENDATIONS.
                                                                                              PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10" CAL.                                                                         COORDINATE WITH CIVIL PLAN FOR CONCRETE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL




                                                                                          1                                               PL           PL   PL   PL       PL        PL            PL         PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11                 TREES TO REMAIN. PROVIDE FENCING AT DRIPLINE (TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CANOPY) OF TREE OR AT NEW CONCRETE EDGE. THE AREA
                                                                                              PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING GOLDEN RAIN                                                                                                                               UNDER THE TREE CANOPY SHALL NOT BE USED FOR PARKING
                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                   PL




                                                                                                                                                                                              3                    TREE TO BE REMOVED                                                                                                                                OR STORAGE. DIGGING WITHIN THE FENCED AREA SHOULD BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10" CAL.                                                                                                                              CARFULLY COMPLETED WITH SHOVELS OR OTHER HAND TOOLS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BORE UNDER LARGE ROOTS AS NEEDED (2" OR LARGER) FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IRRIGATION.
                                                                                              PL




                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                   PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12                 REPAIR EXISTING SOD AS NEEDED WITHIN PARK STRIPS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COORDINATE WITH IRRIGATION PLAN.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13                 SIGHT TRIANGLE - 12` X 12`. NO BOULDERS OR PLANTS SHALL
                                                                                              PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXCEED A HEIGHT OF 3` FROM TOP OF CURB WITHIN THIS AREA.
                                                                                                                                   PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14                 THE BASKETBALL COURT IS SET BACK 4.5` FROM THE
                                                                                                             PL        PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEIGHBORING PROPERTY.
                                                                                                                                                14                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AN PROPOSED EVERGREEN SCREEN IS TO BE PROVIDED. SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLANTING LEGEND. SEE PLANTING LEGEND ON L201

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SYMBOL              DESCRIPTION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TURF GRASS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOD (KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS) INSTALLED OVER 5" TOPSOIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAYER.
P:\2020\20-215 Scalar Office Bldg-Draper\AutoCAD\Landscape\Sheet Set\20-215 lnd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CRUSHED STONE, 3/4" ("CHAMPLIN" FROM BLACK BUTTE MINING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OR APPROVED EQUAL) INSTALLED AT DEPTH OF 3". INSTALLED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OVER DEWITT PRO 5 BARRIER FABRIC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LANDSCAPE SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BARK MULCH (SMALL BARK MULCH FROM MILLER COMPANIES LC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OR APPROVED EQUAL) INSTALLED AT DEPTH OF 3" WITH DEWITT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PRO 5 WEED BARRIER FABRIC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.       CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY QUANTITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.       SEE ARCHITECTURE PLANS FOR ROOFTOP PATIO                              0   20'   40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.       SEE L401-L402 FOR DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.       CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE SAMPLES OF ROCK MULCH TO ARCHITECT AND OWNER.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sheet title:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sheet number:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Salt Lake City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 52 Exchange Place
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Salt Lake City, UT 84111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PLANT SCHEDULE                                                                                                                                                       801.531.1144

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TREES                              CODE   QTY       BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                                                     SIZE      CAL                                  Boise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         800 W MAIN STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AC2    5         ACER PLATANOIDES `CRIMSON SENTRY` / NORWAY S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAPLE                            B&B       2"CAL                               SUITE 940
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BOISE, ID 83702
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            208.424.7675
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AH     8         ACER TATARICA `HOT WINGS` / TATARIAN MAPLE                                  B&B       2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   babcockdesign.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ET     4         EXISTING TREE                                                               .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sheet information:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        revisions: x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FT     6         FAGUS SYLVATICA `TRICOLOR` / TRICOLOR EUROPEAN BEECH                        B&B       2"CAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      num.                                      description                                       date


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GI     3         GLEDITSIA TRIACANTHOS `IMPERIAL` / IMPERIAL HONEYLOCUST                     B&B       2"CAL


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JT     31        JUNIPERUS VIRGINIANA `TAYLOR` / TAYLOR JUNIPER                              6` HT     1.25" CAL


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KP     1         KOELREUTERIA PANICULATA / GOLDEN RAIN TREE                                  B&B       2"CAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PIONEER ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PC2    3         PICEA ABIES `CUPRESSINA` / NORWAY SPRUCE                                    6` HT     1.25" CAL


                                                                                  PL   PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PF     1         PINUS FLEXILIS `VANDERWOLF`S PYRAMID` / VANDERWOLF`S PYRAMID PINE           6` HT     2"CAL
                                                                                             PL         PL      PL
                                                                                                                                         PL        PL         PL   e        PL   e   PL    PL   e        PL      e   PL   PL   e    PL   e    PL               PL   e                        e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL               PL                            PL   e                           PL     e    PL             e           e          e   e   e                                                                                                                                                           date:                                           01 JULY 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SR     10        SYRINGA RETICULATA `SYRINGA SILK` / JAPANESE TREE LILAC                     B&B       2"CAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        project number:
                                                                                                                               PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        project status:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHRUBS                             CODE   QTY       BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                                                     CONT      HEIGHT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        original drawing is 30" x 42"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        current as of:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BW     9         BUXUS MICROPHYLLA `WINTER GEM` / LITTLELEAF BOXWOOD                         5 GAL                 The information and content represented herein is considered by law
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the architect's instruments of service and are the property of Babcock
                                                                                                                           PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Design. They are available for limited review and evaluation by clients,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      consultants, contractors, government agencies, vendors, and office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      personnel only in accordance with this notice. They are intended for use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CD2    71        CARYOPTERIS X CLANDONENSIS `DARK KNIGHT` / DARK KNIGHT BLUEBEARD            5 GAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      only for the project specified and are to be used for no other purpose or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      project including additions to or modification of the completed project.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               105                                          108                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No part thereof may be copied, reproduced, photographed, modified,
                                                                                            REPLACEMENT TREES                                                                                                                                                                                                                   106             107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      published, uploaded, transmitted, disclosed, sold, distributed to others in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      any way including in digital form, or otherwise used without the prior




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      written consent of Babcock Design.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CI     56        CORNUS ALBA `IVORY HALO` TM / TATARIAN DOGWOOD                              5 GAL
                                                                                                                           PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COPYRIGHT © 2019 BABCOCK DESIGN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        stamp:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CA     14        CORNUS SERICEA `ARCTIC FIRE` / ARCTIC FIRE DOGWOOD                          5 GAL.                          stamp:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   110




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TE OF UTA
                                                                                                                           PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        100A                           SCALAR ADDITION                                                                                                                                                             SH     1         CORYLUS AVELLANA `RED DRAGON` / RED LEAFED FILBERT                          42" B&B                                                        TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 07.01.21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   111                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JACOB A.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HI T E C T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L IC E NS E D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       329
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HENDRICKSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HENDRICKSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HJ     40        HYDRANGEA PANICULATA `FIRE LIGHT TIDBIT` / LITTLE LIME PANICLE HYDRANGEA    5 GAL.
                                                                                                                           PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   116

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10110348




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ND S C A P E A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         900 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PN     18        PICEA ABIES `NIDIFORMIS` / BIRD`S NEST SPRUCE                               5 GAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  113




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                          PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              120    121                  122


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PG     3         PICEA PUNGENS `GLAUCA GLOBOSA` / COLORADO SPRUCE                            5 GAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        project information:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  114




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     for:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCALAR OFFICE EXPANSION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     874 PIONEER RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING SCALAR BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PS     53        PINUS MUGO `SLOWMOUND` / MUGO PINE                                          5 GAL.
                                                                                                                          PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  115

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RG     21        PRUNUS BESSEYI `PAWNEE BUTTES` / PAWNEE BUTTES SANDCHERRY                   5 GAL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      117
                                                                                                                          PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PC     5         PRUNUS X CISTENA / PURPLE LEAF SAND CHERRY                                  10 GAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UP                                                                                 W                                                                 SL     6         SAMBUCUS NIGRA `LACED UP` / COLUMNAR BLACK ELDERBERRY                       5 GAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        118
                                                                                                                          PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TD     13        TAXUS X MEDIA `DENSIFORMIS` / DENSE YEW                                     5 GAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PERENNIALS AND GRASSES             CODE   QTY       BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                                                     CONT      HEIGHT
                                                                                                                      PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BJ     25        BRUNNERA MACROPHYLLA `JACK FROST` TM / JACK FROST SIBERIAN BUGLOSS          1 GAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                    REPLACEMENT TREES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                        REPLACEMENT TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CK     40        CALAMAGROSTIS X ACUTIFLORA `KARL FOERSTER` / FEATHER REED GRASS             1 GAL
                                                                                                                      PL




                                                                                                                                                                       REPLACEMENT TREES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GS     11,370    GAURA LINDHEIMERI `SISKIYOU PINK` / SISKIYOU PINK GAURA                     1 GAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                      PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PL              PL                            PL                         PL                 PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HO     81        HEMEROCALLIS X `STELLA DE ORO` / STELLA DE ORO DAYLILY                      1 GAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HF     37        HOSTA UNDULATA `FIRST FROST` / FIRST FROST HOSTA                            1 GAL
                                                                                                                     PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PL




                                                                                                                                                              PL            PL       PL    PL            PL          PL   PL        PL                                                                                                                                             PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IE     24        IRIS PALLIDA `AUREO VARIEGATA` / GOLDEN VARIEGATED SWEET IRIS               1 GAL
                                                                                                                     PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MM     6         MISCANTHUS SINENSIS `MORNING LIGHT` / MORNING LIGHT EULALIA GRASS           1 GAL
                                                                                                                                                         PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PR     13        PULMONARIA X `RASPBERRY SPLASH` / RASPBERRY SPLASH LUNGWORT                 1 GAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL
                                                                                                                     PL




                                                                                                                                                         PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BOULDERS                                      QTY   TYPE AND SOURCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL
                                                                                                                     PL




                                                                                                                                                         PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21    BOULDERS: 3'-4' MIN. DIAMETER "CHAMPLIN" FROM BLACK BUTTE MINING OR
                                                                                                                                    PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    APPROVED EQUAL. BOULDERS ARE TO BE INSTALLED WITH 1/3 OF THE
                                                                                                                                              PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BOULDER BEING BELOW GRADE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHEET NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.   CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY QUANTITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.   SEE L401-L402 FOR DETAILS
P:\2020\20-215 Scalar Office Bldg-Draper\AutoCAD\Landscape\Sheet Set\20-215 lnd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PLANTING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0         20'         40'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sheet title:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sheet number:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L201
         EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS AND FLOOR PLANS
                        2       2       )3 4
                                                                                                                      8                    #     %         #
                        #           /                    2
                            /                                    2
                                                                 5

                  3 #                           -%   %               6"                                      #%
                                    " %#%   4                                                                     % % /                %  1%    %-%#
                                  %     #                                          " %#%          % #%/ % /                     %    1%   #   %    #   1% /
                      7      ## 1         %                  "    %       1%                      .% % /     1            -          0   1 #%        7 %
                  7      1          -% "                         !                ## 1% /
                  %   %-% /                                           7            #%             .% % /     1              #        7 %
                    -          1 #%    8                                                              77                  #               7 -            1 #%   0
                  9            /    1%                                                              # "# %                      %   /
                  9             %      1%                    #        % /
                  9        #                                                                      " #% " %#%              7

                        #                   " %#%        6"% 7              : 2




                                                                                                                          )*+                    ,+)

                                                                                                     # - #        .% % /                             0
                                                                                                                                                     0

                                                                                                     # - #         1                              0
                                                                                                     # - #         1                              0 2
                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                         #                                       202 2




                                                                                                      # - #       /                    #
                                                                                                         $




                                                                                                      # - #       /                    #
                                                                                                         $




%       #   &'(
    $




                                                                                            !"#
                                 2
                2
                                                                                                                                    )*+   ,+)


                           2             2                                                                  # - #             .% % /       0
                                                                                                   !                                       0

                                                                                                            # - #              1           0
                                                                                                   "        # - #              1           0 2
                                                                                                                                           0
                    !                                                                      !   #        "
                                                                                                                      #                   202 2

                                             2
                                                                                                   $"




                                                                                                                                    )*+   ,+)

                                                                                                            # - #         # 1               2




                                                                               2
                                                                                                            "                              0
                                                                                                                                           0
                    /                                                          2           /                          #                    0




                                                                                   2
                                     "




                                                                                                            # - #
                                                     2       2
                                                                                                            3 4
                                                                                                            3 4                                 2
                                                                                                            3 4   %
                                                                                                            3 4   %
                                                                                                            3 4   %
                                                                                                            3 4   %
                                                                                                            3 4   %
                                                                                                            3 4   %
                                                                                                            3 4   %
                                                                                                            3 4   %
                                                                                                            3 4   %                             2
                                                                                                            3 4   %
                                                                                                            3 4                 %          0
                                                                                                            3 4




                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                          "




                                                                 2
                                                                                                             #
                                                                                                             #

                                                                                                                 ##
                                                                                                                 ##
                                                                                                                 ##
                                                                                                             "        #
                                                                                                             "        #                         2
                                                                                                            % #
                                                                                                            ! %
                                                                                                            #/
                        .% % /                                                                              #
                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                               %
                                                                                                               %
                                                                                                               %
                                                 "                                                             %                                22
                                                                                                               %
                                                                                                               %




                                                                                   2
                                                                                                               %
                                                                     6   6                                     %
                                                                                           2                   %
                                                                                                               %
                                                                                                                          %
                                                                                                                          %                0 2
                                                                                                             %
                                                                                                              %
                                                                                                            - % "#
                                                                                                            1 7                                 2
                                                                                                            1 7


                                                         "




                                                                         2




                                                                         !"#
# - #   #   #
  $
                                       2
                           2

                                   2               2


                                                                                                                    # - #



                                                                                             !       %&"$       "   .
                                                                                                                    .
                               !                                                         !       !
                                                                                                                         ##
                                                                                                                         ##
                                                                                                                     "        #
                                                                                                 "                  %
                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                         %




                                           2
                                                                                             #              "            %
                                                                                                                         %
                                                                                                                         %
                                                                                                 $"
                                                                                                                         %
                                                                                                                         %
                                                                                                                         %
                               /                                                         /                               %
                                               "                                                                                  %
                                                                                                                                  %
                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                       %
                                                                                                                    " % .
                                                                                                                    1 7
                                                                                                                    1     "




            .% % /
              %-   1 % %



                                                                                 2




                                                                                     2
                                                       "               2




                                                                   2




                                                                                         2




                                                           "

                                                               "




                                                   2




# - #   #    #                                                             !"#
  $
                  2

                      2




              !                                                 !




                                                        2
              /           7   %     #                           /
                                  % /   # 1
                                              #




                                                            2
              2                                                 2




"   "   % "                                       !"#
$
                                                                                                2


                                                              7



#%/       %. "                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                                                                                                                             %/

                                                                                                                                                                                                             # 1

           1%
#       /# ;% /




                                                                                                      7                           .% % /                             7                       .% % / %
                                                                                                                                     % -   1 % %                                               %   1 7 #
    %       "
                                                                                                                                                                                            3 1 22    -% 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "   "   !



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # - #



# %        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # - #


                                                                                                                                                             .% % / "%# % /                                       3 4# - #
                                                                                                                                                                % -  1 % %
                                               #"7 1% 7       #            0   %                                  7 %
                                              %7 % %  3 #             1 7 #        3 1
                                                   %;     7            22 -%   4
                                             1%   1 4


                     -%        # -   %
                      $




                                                                                                                                                                     !


                                         7                        7                                         7         %       #   1 ##                        7



                        1%                                                                                                                                                    %/
            #        /# ;% /
                                                                                                                                                                              # 1




                 %        "




                                                                                                                                                                                    # - #



            # %           "




                                                                                                                                                                                    # - #



                                                                               #%/       %. "          #"7 1% 7           #                   0    %
                                                                                                     %7 % %   3 #                        1 7 #         3 1
                                                                                                          %;      7                        2 -%    4
                                                                                                    1%    1 4


                     -%        # -   %
                      $
                                                                                                                                                                                              !"#
                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                            7                    7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %/


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             # 1
                                                              .% % /
                                                                 % -   1 % %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "                   !
                                                              .% % / %
                                                                %     1 7                               #%/   %. "
                                                              #     3 1 22                      %   "
                                                                 -% 4                                                                                                                                                               1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #         /#




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # - #
.% % /           % /                                                                                                                                                                                                                1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "   "   !
   % -        1 % %                                                                                                                                                                                                             # /#


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         # %        "




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # - #

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 4# - #
                                                                               .% % / "%# % /
                                                                                  % -  1 % %




                               -%     # -     %       "
                               $




                       !                          /                                                                                           2

                                                          7                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                  .% % /
                                                                                                                                                     % -   1 % %


                                                                                                                                                                                           %/

    #%/        %. "                                                                                                                                                                        # 1


                                                                                                                                                                                       "




      %          "




                                                                                                                                                                                                  # - #
                1%
          #    /#
                                                                                                                                                                    .% % /       % /
                                                                                                                                                                         % -   %
                                                                                                                                                                   -         7
                                                                                                                                                                      1 "%# % /
    # %         "




                                                                                                                                                                                                  # - #


                                                                                                                     .% % / "%# % /                                                             3 4# - #
                                                                                                                        % -  1 % %




                           1        # -   %
                               $
                                                                                                                                                                                                           !"#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #                            %# ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 %                          ##            31% /
                                                           ##                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        #                4          %    %      /



                                                           7" #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #                            %# ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ##       31% /
                                                       %     -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #                4         " % /
                                                             7
                                                                                                       "7                          "7




                                                                                                                              7%
                                                            "%# % /
                                                                                                        %                           %                                                                                                                                                                                            %                        7 " 1 ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          %    1%




                                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %       <            %         ##    0
                    #           %       "         1%        /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   %##
            "   /                                                   "

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         %                1 #
    #               %# ;                               ##       31%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7                       #/               7
                /           #       4       " %        /
                                7   #              #        "   /                                                                                                                                                                                      %         %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %                 %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %         % /
                        #               % /  1 ##                                                                                                                                                                             "    %      %       1%
                                        ## 1      ##                                                                                                                                                                           "


                        #       "                                                                                                                                                                                    #   "             # -    %
2




        $                                                                                                                                                                                                        $
%




                                                                                                                                                                                                             %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             % %     7           #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     #        % /                "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                #    % /          #


                                                                             % %              7    #
                                                                        #
                                                                                                                                                     % %          7                #
                                                                        %         -                7           "%# % /0                                                                #                                                                             %       -            7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      %
                                                                        -                 %                   7"                                                                                                                                                                         "%# % /




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      # -
                                                                                      %       1%         "                                                    %            <               %
                                                                                                                                                       ##      0                                                                                           . .               7" 3/       "            #% 4
                                                                                                                                                            %##                3 %
                                                                                                                                                            1                  7 #             4


                                                                                                                                                   %  -                            7
                                                                                                                                            "%# % /0 -                     %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /                    %-%#
                                                                                                                                                 7"                    %                1%
                                                                                                                                                                                        "


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         % /
                                                                                                                                                       #                                   % /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "            %
                                                                                                                                                              1 ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %        /
                                                                                                                                                     ## 1                          ##
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1%          "       "     #
                                                                                                                                                                           %
                                                                                                                                                                               % /
                                                                            %                          % /                                                             "         %
                                                                             "            %               %     / 1%                                               %           / 1%
                                                                              "                                                                                                  "


                        #       "                  # -          %                                                                                           #                  "               %   # -   %                                                                           #       "           1 ##                               %
        $                                                                                                                               #        $                                                                                                     $                 $
%




                                                                                                                                            %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !"#
 EXHIBIT H
RENDERINGS
   EXHIBIT I
LIGHTING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.5'    20.5'   20.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20.5'                                                                              20.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6'-10"                       6'-10"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20.5'


                                                                                                                                                                                  7'-2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                  7'-2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6'-10"                          6'-10"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5'-4"




BRIAN
ARCHITECTURAL SCALE, WET-LISTED EXTERIOR WALL SCONCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                 BRIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARCHITECTURAL SCALE, WET-LISTED EXTERIOR WALL SCONCE

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Design Options
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NO PANEL (15.5”H FIXTURE)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Metal Powder Coat Finish Options




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ESN - Enviro Satin Nickel



                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Down Light (MT1) Matte Black                 Down/Up Light (MT2), Matte White

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHORT PANEL (15.5”H PANEL, 31”H FIXTURE)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EOB - Enviro Oil-Rubbed Bronze




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GR - Graphite

    31” Brian, shown with “Down Light” option and Matte Black finish             APPLICATIONS           Indirect wall grazing luminaire for exterior/interior use: flanking doors, on columns,
                                                                                                        on building facades, between windows. Suitable for marine environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Down Light (MT1), Graphite                   Down/Up Light (MT2), Graphite
                                                                                 SIZES                   • 15.5”H x 7”W x 4”D
                                                                                                         • 31”H x 7”W x 4”D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LONG PANEL (31”H PANEL, 46.5”H FIXTURE)
                                                                                                         • 46.5”H x 7”W x 4”D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DBT - Dark Bronze Textured
                                                                                 WEIGHT                  • 15.5”H - 6 lb
                                                                                                         • 31”H - 8 lb
                                                                                                         • 46.5”H - 10 lb

                                                                                 MOUNTING                • Steel mounting system with mounting plate and cover with rubber gaskets
                                                                                                           between the junction box and mounting plate
                                                                                                         • Mounts to center of J-box at 5.5” from top of rectangular shade                                                                                                                                               WHT - Matte White

                                                                                 SPECIFICATIONS          •   Dark Sky Compliant, Full cut-off (applies to “Down Light” version)
                                                                                                         •   High efficiency, fully integrated proprietary LED module
                                                                                                         •   IP66 Rated
                                                                                                         •   BUG Rating B1-U0-G0
                                                                                                         •   120-277V input
                                                                                                         •   100,000+ hours rated life time
                                                                                                         •   10 Year Limited Warranty (excludes shade)                                                                                                                                                                   BLK - Matte Black
                                                                                                         •   Title 24 Compliant
                                                                                                         •   ADA Compliant                                                                                              Down Light (MT1), Enviro Oil-Rubbed Bronze   Down/Up Light (MT2), Enviro Oil-Rubbed Bronze

                                                                                 LAMPING                 • 3000K and 3500K                                                                                                                                                                                           SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE, REVISED 04/05/2021
                                                                                                         • 35W

                                                                                 CONSTRUCTION           Manufactured from aluminum with industrial powder coat finish


                                       10YR


                                                                                                                                      SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE, REVISED 04/05/2021

ALVALIGHT.COM                     P: 510 993 0898                      Headquarters: 2301 4th Street Berkeley, CA, 94710
   EXHIBIT J
PARKING STUDY
April 12, 2021

Zak Nugent
Scalar - Chief Executive Officer

RE: Parking Demand Analysis for Scalar Office

Dear Zak,

In the completed condition the Scalar Corporate Office Building will feature 19,939sf and 55 parking spaces
as shown in Figure 1. The company currently employees 40 full-time employees at this location with an
additional 3-5 interns in the summer months. Within 5 years of the building expansion, the company is
expected to reach a maximum occupancy of 60 full-time employees together with 5 interns for a total of 65
occupants.




                                      Figure 1. Scalar Office Site Plan

City Requirements (City Code Table 9-25-1) are 4 stalls per 1,000sf of building floor space, which here
translates to 80 stalls, 25 stalls beyond what is being provided. In accordance with Section 9-25-090 of the
Draper City Code this parking demand analysis has been prepared at your request to pursue this variance.

The City requirement of 4 stalls per 1,000sf of building floor space is based on the average parking supply
(not demand) ratio of 4.0 spaces per 1,000sf associated with the study sites of Land Use Code 701 “Office
Building” in the 4th Edition of “Parking Generation” (PG) as published by the Institute of Transportation
Engineers (ITE). For more accurate demand estimating, the 5th and current edition of this publication has
further subdivided the land use code as follows:

    ·   710 – General Office Building
    ·   712 – Small Office Building
    ·   714 – Corporate Headquarters
    ·   715 – Single Tenant Office Building

The setting for all these office land use codes was given as “urban/suburban”. Given the land use code
description provided in PG, Code 710 does not apply as it refers to “a general office building hous[ing]
multiple tenants.” 712 does not apply as it refers to buildings “less than or equal to 5,000 gross square feet in
size.” Land use codes 714 and 715 are quite similar based on the following descriptions and appear equally
applicable to the Scalar project as it will contain offices, meeting rooms, storage space and amenities:

        714 - A corporate headquarters building is a single tenant office building that houses the corporate headquarters of a
        company or organization, which generally consists of offices, meeting rooms, space for file storage and data processing, a
        restaurant or cafeteria, and other service functions.

        715 - A single tenant office building generally contains offices, meeting rooms, and space for file storage and data
        processing of a single business or company and possibly other service functions including a restaurant or cafeteria.

Where 714 and 715 do appear to differ is this:
   1. Average square footage of study sites:
            a. 714: 222,000sf
            b. 715: 96,000sf
   2. Number of studies:
            a. 714: 7
            b. 715: 12
   3. Study area size:
            a. 714: Smallest 65,000sf, with most in excess of 100,000 sf
            b. 715: Half of studies under 75,000sf with 5 studies (42%) in the 25,000sf and 45,000sf range

This comparison seems to suggest that land use code 715 is most applicable to the Scalar project, with the
smallest 42% of its study sites being even more applicable. These study sites have been identified on the 715
scatter plots in Figure 2 and 3.
Figure 2. Single Tenant Office Building (Land Use Code 715, GFA)
Figure 3. Single Tenant Office Building (Land Use Code 715, Employees)
Average parking generation rates for Code 715 are 3.10 stalls per gross floor area and 0.78 stalls per
employee. These demand rates do not change when only the study sites in the 25,000sf to 45,000sf range are
considered. Using these demand rates, required parking is 61.8 stalls and 50.7 stalls respectively. The site
currently provides 55 stalls, which falls within this recommended range. Therefore, according to the best
ITE data available the project as proposed is expected to meet average parking demand for the long-
term future.

Please note that the tendency towards flex-work and remote-work arrangements in the post-COVID era will
very likely further reduce demand. According to expected company operations most of the staff will work
remote some of the time resulting in average daily office occupancies of 60%.

Additional factors that could reduce to the project’s parking demand may include the following:
   · Adjacent location of 4 on-street parking stalls on 900 East Street
   · Proximity to Transit
             o Bus route on Pioneer Road
             o ½-mile to TRAX station
   · Location within Draper City Center featuring higher land densities and greater walkability than
        suburban office locations.
   · Availability of bike parking at the project. A bike rack is proposed external to the building and bike
        parking 6 spaces are proposed within the structure.

If you have any questions, please contact me at 435.890.4498 or mtaylor@civilsolutionsgroup.net.
Sincerely,




Michael Taylor, P.E.
Civil Solutions Group, Inc.
www.civilsolutionsgroup.net



                                                                      05.28.2021
             EXHIBIT K
APPLICANT DEVIATION REQUEST LETTER
.$ ,           /%




                    -- !!
($ 0 $
                      $1     ,
($ 0 $



 $ 2       3         $ 455       0   !

    6 ! , 7       $ 8% ! 5 $  + 7 ! , 0$ 2         !       $ +     - , + ! ,    0$ $ , ! %!!     9!: 6    ,,
($ 0 $ ,        $,     6 ($ 0 $      , " 00$                %$ !! !         ! 0$ 2        !       -      6 5
   $ $     8% !     ! $ 5%$ $    $ !

       $




" !      $
 $ 0
  +  ( !




                                         !   " #       $      %   &   ! '(   )       )*)   + +    , !    -
    ; ;1 4..'                        < ;= '4=
( >'; '4= 1 ?
.$ ,            #
 $ 2       @3           ))



                                                                                                                                           !                                  "
                                                                       #                                                                                                  $
                                     %
                #                                                                                                      %
                                                                           "           #

                                                     &     #
                             %                                                         &           #               '                           &
                                                                           #       #                   #
                                                       "                                   "                       !

(      )**)+ +                   %                             "               ,               &                                                          #
         %     -                             .



%                       /01                      2         ,
                    ,                                              )
                                                               )+ + 3%43 43 43 4  354
                                                          ,#         6!       # # # 5+7
                                                       #                    "
                                                                                   #  1                                                                               " 5 67
           #                                                                        ,                                                 6!           #
                             8                           6!  #                 "                                                                    8                     ,
           6! 9              &                              ##          5+7      , &  #



(      )        )+ + :3*4                ;                 /                                                                                   #               &     #
                   .

                                                                                   #                                              #                                   #
                                                       #




                                                                                            !"
                                                 #$%                                   &                                                                  '

                                         #           #                                                                        #                                .

                             (

                             (




                                                                               !           " #         $   %   &       ! '(       )                 )*)       + +   , !       -
                                            )
                                                                                         #$%                        *

                                #                   #                                                          #     <

                                                                                                  *
                                                                                    )                                                                  +
                  ,         -


                  .                                     *
                                                                                                                    *                                       /
                  +

              /    &                                              #            #                                                  #       # #    &     #
                  '

                                                                      *
                                                                          *             0"%                                                       *     1$%
                        &                           2       ' 3                                                                                   4$ 4%
                                                                          *             !$%


%             10:                   =                   2
>                                                                                                     ,
                                              "
    &     "       % >                       )**)+6+3/4364                     % >                      )       )+ +3%43*43 4 9
                                                     &                                                #


(   )   )+ + :3*4               ;                   /                                                                                 #          &     #
           .

                                                                              #                                               #                         #
                                                    #


                                                                                                      (
                                                5
                                                    3        6




                                        (                                                                                         *       (/(

                                                    (                                     *


                                #       #                                                                                 #

                  7
                                                                                          ,                               +




                                                                          !       " #         $       %    &       ! '(       )           )*)   + +   , !       -
                  8        9                                          :
                                                                      .




                                            -           (
                                           -                 .


                                   #           #                                                      #     <

                                                                                                                                        (
                                                                              2


                  (
                  3            6                                 3        6                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                  *

              /    &                                    #             #                                                 #   # #        &            #
                  '

                                                                                                                        *                   2

                                                3                     6
                                                                  5
                           *                                                                              <$%                               *




(   )**)+ +                        #            &   #                 #                                                                         .

                                           #                                                  ,                                                             &
                               #

                                                                                                                        /                                   -
                                                            =(>
                  <                    <                                              )
                                                                                                      .

                       *

      *
          &            #               #                          3 +74


                                                                                                                                                        ?
                  (                                                                                                         (
                                                                                                                @




                                                              !       " #         $       %       &       ! '(      )           )*)   + +       , !         -
                                                                                            .
                                                        # $"!           .                                                                             @$ $$$
                                                *
                                                *

                                                                                                              ?


        ?                                       &                                                             #
                                                        "                                                     "#                                                         "


                            /                                                       &                                          4A!!A$4$ &@''
                            3                                                                                                            (
                                        2                                                                                              *
                            2



%                       0                                           =
2   % >                             )   )+ +3%43*43 4 /   8                                                                "      ,                   "                          $
                    &                       6+7         8                                                                                         3                       4
#               @                           8    "                                                                                8                             #
9           &                                    ##                                     6+7                            &          #
                                          8

(   )   )+ + :3*4                           ;                   /                                                                                     #              &               #
           .

                                                                                            #                                                 #                                      #
                                                    #


                                :                                                                                                                               *                "$%     2
                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                ;       =       =                                                         :
                                                            2               2                                                                                       .
                                                        (
                                                                                                      ?


                                            #           #                                                                                 #

                            )
                            .
                                    -                                                                                                                     B

                            !       ,
                                                                        (                                 A

                            @       C                                                                                                                                        ?
                                                            :

                                        #                       #                                                          #          <




                                                                                        !       " #       $        %   &         ! '(         )               )*)   + +          , !     -
                                             .                           2


            /   &                                    #               #                                      #   # #
        &       #                    '

                    (
                                     *                                               *           !      ?#$$
                                             !       ?@"$



                                                 #                                           '
                                &    #           #               "               #                      #
                            '                               /                "
%               A               ##                                                                                                ,
    #       #

9                       &                                #
                                         &




                                                             !       " #     $   %       &       ! '(   )       )*)   + +   , !       -
   EXHIBIT L
SUBDIVISION PLAT
