MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, APRIL 20,
2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:             Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (via
                     Zoom), Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha
                     Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott
                    Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource
                    Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Christina Oliver, Community Development Director;
                    Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications
                    Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie, Finance Director
_____________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically.
This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code
2-1-040.

Determination 2020-25, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper
City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of
those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City
Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.

The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:

   •   Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City
       Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the
       COVID-19 virus.
   •   While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations show an encouraging downward
       trend and vaccines are becoming available to a larger segment of the Draper
       population, diligence is required so that there is not a rebound in cases and
       hospitalizations.
   •   It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any
       meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply
       with applicable health orders.




Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
      •   COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and
          welfare of Draper City residents and the public in general.
      •   The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public
          may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to
          participate in public hearings.



Business Session

1.0       Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

1.1       Mayor Walker called the meeting to order and noted that Councilmembers
          Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and Vawdrey were present.

2.0       Public Comments

2.1       There were no public comments.

3.0       Consent Items
            a. Approval of April 6, 2021, City Council Meeting Minutes
            b. Approval of Resolution #21-15, appointing Pimmie Lopes as a regular
               member of the Draper City Arena Advisory Board
            c. Approval of Resolution #21-12, reappointing Josh Christensen to the
               Draper City Parks, Trails, and Recreation Committee
            d. Approval of Resolution #21-16, appointing Lisa Fowler as a regular
               member of the Draper City Planning Commission
            e. Approval of Resolution #21-17, appointing Luana Guymon and Melissa
               Prince as members of the Draper City Historic Preservation Commission

3.1       Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                the   Consent    Items.
          Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

3.2       A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
          and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0       Public Hearing: Ordinance #1487, an ordinance approving the Big Willow
          Creek 3rd Amendment Development Agreement for approximately 41.33 acres
          of property located at approximately 491 West 11400 South within Draper City.



                                                                            Page 2 of 18
4.1   Christina Oliver, Community Development Director, said that Jennifer
      Jastremsky had been the point person on this project, but was unable to be at
      the meeting because of a death in the family. She began by orienting the
      Council to where the development was located and displayed the land use and
      zoning map. The development agreement was approved in January of 2017
      for 115 single-family lots on 47.9 acres. There was a preliminary plat in July of
      2017, with the Phase 1 final plat approved in September of 2018. Draper City
      Municipal Code (DCMC) requires two access points for any development over
      30 single-family homes. The Phase 1 plat approval was for 30 single-family
      homes because there was currently only one access point to the development.
      The first amendment development agreement and re-zone were approved in
      April of 2019. This added additional acreage to the overall Big Willow
      development and capped a maximum density of nine dwelling units per acre
      in the RM2 zone. The second amendment development agreement also added
      additional property and brought the total Big Willow development to 256
      dwelling units within 70.65 acres. The second amendment allowed for the
      further development of utilities before the second access point was approved.
      That night, the Council heard the third amendment development agreement.
      The developer requested two things. First, the developer wanted the same
      consideration provided with the second development agreement that allowed
      them to construct utilities on the third phase without the second access point
      being fully constructed. Ms. Oliver noted that the second access point was
      currently under construction over a culvert by the Jensen Farms developer.
      However, the canals needed to dry up before the road could be built. It was
      anticipated the second access would be completed very soon. The second
      point requested was to use the DCMC that was in effect during the planning
      and purchasing of the property as the code pertained to driveways, alleyways,
      and access. The Planning Commission heard the request on April 8, 2021, and
      sent the recommendation to allow the Phase 3 utilities to be built, but then
      sent the recommendation to deny the reliance on the prior code. Rather the
      Planning Commission recommended that this phase of Big Willow and Ivory
      Homes be held to the current code.

      There was an amendment coming up the following Thursday about road
      alignment and cul-du-sac, a Phase 6 plat amendment, and Phase 3 through 5
      final plats moving forward in time.

      Ms. Oliver explained that the modification of private roadway widths and
      driveway depth standards was the primary issue that night. A lot of the public

                                                                           Page 3 of 18
comment received was directly involved with those particular points. Changes
to this section of DCMC were made in May and November of 2020 to increase
roadway and driveway widths.

Ms. Oliver displayed the full language of the third amendment to the Big Willow
Creek Development Agreement. The Council chose not to have the language
read verbatim. She summarized that the terms stated, and Ivory Homes
agreed, that they would not seek further building permits until the secondary
access was constructed, or there was a bond for the full construction amount
of the second access. She then presented a table that outlined the changes
from the previous DCMC code to now. The alleyway width had changed from
12’ from the alley centerline to the garage door to 26’. She said that she would
turn over the rest of the changes to Brien Maxfield, City Engineer, as well as
Don Buckley, Fire Marshal, to provide the rationale for some of the changes.

Brien Maxfield, a City Engineer, said that right-of-way width had been added.
An additional area was added to the asphalt surface to facilitate emergency
access from driving in the gutters to driving on the asphalt surface. He said
that he could go into more detail if the Council was interested.

Ms. Oliver touched on the issue of driveways and guest parking. She said that
driveways were added as a result of some of the developments that had come
to fruition in Draper. For instance, the development directly to the south of
City Hall had alleyways with no driveways. The parking, therefore, typically fell
to the street or guest parking. Staff had found the developments that did not
have driveways were less pedestrian-friendly. As a result, the code change was
brought to the Council to require that every townhome have a 20’ driveway to
ensure that there was some parking. Many of the public comments reiterated
that because garages are often used for storage, they were not always
available for cars to be parked in. She said that regarding guest parking, the
current DCMC now prohibits garages and driveways to count as guest parking.

Ms. Oliver then displayed the layout of the overall development and the Phase
6 concept from Ivory Homes. She noted that the private roadways were 30’
and the alleyways were 20’. Some of the townhomes did not contain a 20’ deep
driveway. All of the public roads, however, were 60’ wide. She said that she
could go over each of the specific standards and the changes made during the
May and November 2020 text amendment changes.



                                                                     Page 4 of 18
Councilmember T. Lowery said that she and Ms. Oliver had worked together
in several meetings surrounding the issue that many vehicles did not fit within
the 20’ driveways. She asked if the code change allowed larger vehicles to be
able to park in the actual space. Ms. Oliver said that was correct. Three-foot
driveways, for all intents and purpose, were a waste of space. Councilmember
T. Lowery said that it was an important update. Ms. Oliver said yes. She said
that another component added to the standards was to increase the access to
alleyways to six feet.

Councilmember Roberts asked if Ms. Oliver could talk about how the code
changes related to public safety and how they related to emergency access.
He asked what the logic behind the changes was.

Don Buckley, Fire Marshal, said that the fire code required minimum width of
20’ for any fire department access. When vehicles were added to roadways,
the 20’ did not allow for on-street parking. On a roadway up to 26’ wide, there
could not be on-street parking on either side of the street. Roads that were
26-32’ wide could have parking on one side of the road, preferably the non-
hydrant side. Roads that were greater than 32’ wide allowed for parking on
both sides of the road. The reason for this was to be able to get emergency
vehicles in and still be able to get traffic out when needed. He said that when
the department responded to a fire and laid out their hoses, the hoses
connected to the fire hydrants become an above-ground water line. Once they
were laid out, they can’t be moved or driven upon. Emergency fire vehicles
take up an entire 20’ roadway. That was why additional access was needed
after 30 homes so that there was another way to get folks out. The fire code
allowed for the city to require wider widths.

Councilmember Roberts asked if it was fair to say that the changes made it
easier for emergency vehicles to access emergencies. Mr. Buckley said they
do. They help improve the fire’s response.

Ms. Oliver continued to go over and remind the Council of the modifications
made to the code.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that the Council had received multiple emails
about traffic studies. She asked if staff could speak to some of those.




                                                                   Page 5 of 18
Mr. Maxfield said that when the Big Willow Creek development first come in
with 115 units that did not automatically trigger a traffic study based on
standards. When they needed to connect to 14000 South as their primary
access point, UDOT required a traffic study. A study for the original 115 single-
family units was conducted and said that per that level of traffic, no mitigation
was required. For the additional property, staff had not received an updated
traffic study for the high-density area, so the traffic impacts on the new
development had not yet been analyzed.

Councilmember T. Lowery asked if staff had requested a traffic study. Mr.
Maxfield said that a traffic study would be part of Phase 6 submittals.
Councilmember T. Lowery asked if following that traffic study, approval would
come back to the Council. Ms. Oliver said that Phase 6 would go through the
site approval process.

Councilmember F. Lowry wondered what happened if the traffic study came
back and said that current roadways could not accommodate the increased
number of homes. He said it seemed like the cart was before the horse. Mr.
Maxfield said that as part of the study, any mitigation that is project-related is
included in the approval process. The developer would be on the hook to
construct any necessary mitigating factors. Councilmember F. Lowry clarified
that what the applicant could request would be contingent on the results of
the traffic study.

Ms. Oliver asked if Mr. Maxfield could elaborate on existing conditions
compared to what the development would allow for. Mr. Maxfield said that
the primary access for the development was onto 14000 South, a Utah
Department of Transportation (UDOT) street. There presently were significant
delays in that area. The project would address project-related impacts, but
would not mitigate any existing delays. UDOT acknowledges that they have
significant impacts in that area and had addressed the fact. There would not
be a traffic signal on 550 West and 14000 South. In the future, they may come
back to looking at the ¾ movement that exists there, if safety becomes an issue
with people trying to turn left from 14000 South into the subdivision.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if that would be considered in the traffic study.
Mr. Maxfield said that would be an element the developer would have to look
at. He asked what would happen if the development access became a right in,
right out. He said that the traffic study did say that quite a bit of the traffic

                                                                     Page 6 of 18
      would proceed down through the Jensen Farms subdivision towards 700 West.
      The point was that would be a less busy intersection that would accommodate
      better traffic flow.

4.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

4.3   Mark Palmer, resident, said that he had serious concerns about the new mini-
      subdivision Ivory had been granted. He said that when they were sold the lot,
      they were sold the idea that it was an exclusive subdivision of 115 homes with
      no mention of townhomes. He was shown a map with June Grass Street as
      being a T intersection. Now it was a four-way stop. Before selling this, Ivory
      had been granted a high-density home establishment, north of his subdivision.
      He understood that when there were more than 30 homes, two access points
      were needed. He asked at what point three access points were needed. If
      there were 256 homes with only a right out, right in on 14000 South with the
      rest going through Jensen Farms, he wondered how many homes, including
      those in Jensen Farms, would be affected. He said that if there were 256
      homes, each with one and a half working members, which equated to 375 cars
      trying to exit the neighborhood on 14000 South. If five cars get out every
      minute turning right with no problem, it would take 75 minutes to evacuate
      the neighborhood. Ivory was also asking for narrower private roads in the
      townhomes area, creating more cars to be parked and pushing them onto the
      main roads in the subdivision, making it tighter and harder for commuters and
      emergency vehicles to navigate. He recognized that some high-density
      housing had already been approved, but the neighbors and Draper citizens
      requested that the Council help keep the neighbors safe and deny Ivory’s
      request for smaller streets, and if at all possible, require them to put another
      access in and out of the neighborhood for emergency vehicles and to help with
      the bottleneck of commuters from Big Willow and Jensen Farms, especially
      with the school and church present in between subdivisions.

4.4   Steve Affleck, resident, said that he thought the overview provided by the staff
      was really good. He appreciated it. He said that Mr. Prince had called several
      residents to try to explain Ivory’s position. He said that was appreciated, too.
      He noted when he looked at the list of folks, more than half were residents,
      indicating that the development was an important issue to neighbors. He said
      that no one was at the City Council meeting to advocate for residents two years
      ago when the high density was approved. He said that in part, current
      neighbors were advocating for future residents and neighbors, for their

                                                                          Page 7 of 18
      children’s safety. He said that many issues had already been mentioned and
      that the Council had received emails from several people in the neighborhood
      about points such as garage storage and parking, the new elementary school,
      emergency vehicle access, etc. He said that the neighbors appreciated the
      requirement for the traffic impact study when it came to that point in time. He
      said that regarding guest parking, having one guest per four homes seemed a
      little under what the requirement should be. He said that he drove through a
      high-density neighborhood this evening in another area. The driveways were
      plenty long so the cars could be up on the driveways. There were no cars in
      the streets. This meant that when people went on walks they could stay on
      the sidewalks without stepping into the streets to get around a car that was
      blocking the sidewalk. The area was nice. He said that he thought that
      residents had come to terms with extra homes coming into the neighborhood,
      but were very concerned about the traffic and safety. He said that neighbors
      were very concerned about if Ivory Homes would be able to use the old code.
      He said that there was a reason why these codes evolve.

4.5   Cory Ann Stokes, resident, said that they started the process of building with
      Ivory two years ago. She said she echoed what previous residents had
      expressed regarding safety, parking, and light concerns. She said that her
      family had previously rented in a high-density community while they built their
      home. She said that it was completely reassuring to them that a high-density
      community was not the type of neighborhood for them. She said the parking
      was ridiculous. She said that they had room to park on their driveway. Despite
      this, she got rear-ended. The streets were always full and people often parked
      outside of their driveways and packed their stuff in their garage, her family
      included. Her other general concern is related to morals. She said it seemed
      like when they looked into the process of building in this community, there was
      a lot of appeal in the development being all single-family homes on larger lots.
      That was why they brought the property. The purchase was not like that of
      buying a car. For many of the families, these were million-dollar homes meant
      to be forever homes. Because of this, it was frustrating as a resident to have
      all of the changes made. Neighbors didn’t get any say in the other
      amendments that were made. She said that it was frustrating to move into a
      space that did not end up being what was expected. She had picked her lot
      for specific reasons. It felt like a safe place for her kids, a place where there
      wouldn’t be a lot of traffic, and a place where there would not be a huge
      number of neighbors. All of these facts were changing with the expanded
      development.

                                                                           Page 8 of 18
4.6   Christopher Cleveland, resident, stated his support for what others had
      already been saying. He wanted to note that Ivory had purchased the
      properties over time and continue to purchase property to develop after
      Draper City code changed. He said that in his opinion, Ivory needed to be held
      to the current standards that had been changed as they continue to buy new
      land and develop in Draper. He said that they knew the rules and should be
      held to them. He said that residents could not change what had happened
      before, although, he too bought a corner lot on June Grass for the safety of
      their kids on a T- intersection under the pretense that there would only be 115
      neighbors. He said that they were not privy to any information before moving
      into the development that the neighborhood would change so that right across
      the street from them would become high-density. He said that he had lived in
      Daybreak for five years. His family moved out of Daybreak and into Draper
      because of the type of community that Daybreak had become. They didn’t feel
      like it was safe for their kids to ride bikes or to walk their dog. He said there
      was going to be a school and a church that would already increase traffic and
      the number of kids in the neighborhood who would be walking to school. Cars
      on streets block the view when crossing the street. Because of all of those
      reasons he didn’t see why Ivory should be allowed to use an old code for
      driveways just so that they will be able to pack more houses in an area that
      really cannot handle the houses they have already been approved to have. He
      said that if they can design the number of houses according to the current city
      code, then that was what they could do. He said they should be held to the
      current city code, not past city code as they continue to develop.

4.7   Jason Staples, resident, said that he had emailed in some pictures and
      drawings. He said that he was going to reference some of those materials in
      his public comment. He also supported what had been previously said
      regarding the traffic. He said that he did not know who thought that it was a
      good idea to have 250+ residents funnel down across June Grass and go out
      Jensen Farms. He asked if there was something that could be done to
      investigate more access points in and out of the neighborhood. He noted the
      limited access, and difficulty getting in and out at 14000 South. He said that
      he went down to Holbrook Farms, Ivory’s other development in Lehi. He said
      that it was a nice neighborhood with townhomes, cottage homes, and family
      homes. He said that the difference there was that the single-family homes,
      townhomes, and cottage homes were not tied to each other like in the Big
      Willow development. The current proposal has Big Willow residents needing

                                                                           Page 9 of 18
      to go through the high-density housing to be able to get in and out of the
      neighborhood. At Holbrook Farms, each of the types of housing had its access
      points. Some other observation he had of Ivory’s development in Lehi was that
      the street parking at the cottage homes and townhomes was where people
      park on the streets because they did not park in their garages. After all, their
      garages appeared to be storage units. On the private lanes, there were short
      driveways where people’s cars extended in the street. If that was not allowed
      in Draper and residents could not park on the road, where would all those cars
      go? Another observation he had at the Holbrook development was that there
      were a lot more parking stalls that were mostly full. He assumed those stalls
      were used by residents. It seemed there was a lot more parking at the
      Holbrook development than what was proposed in Draper. A final question
      he had was regarding the zoning. He said that the zoning was changed to the
      high-density before any of the residents lived in the neighborhood and were
      able to have a voice. That was disappointing. In looking at where the
      townhomes and cottage homes would be and at some of Draper City’s zoning
      maps, it appeared that some of those homes were in the single-family zoned
      area. To him, it seemed that everything proposed didn’t meet the zoning
      requirements.

4.8   LaRae Wallace, resident, said that she wanted to add her voice to her
      neighbors who had spoken. She said that each had brought out some
      excellent points, many of which were thoughts she and her husband, Brad,
      had. She said that just this morning when she took her son to school and had
      to get on 14000 South, there was already so much traffic backed up there. She
      imagined what that would be like with additional homes. She said that when
      she looked at the amount of land and existing development and what was
      proposed with only two access points, where one is only a right in, right out, it
      did not seem safe, functional, or to provide a quality of life that she expected
      when she purchased in this community. She said that she was very
      disappointed with how the situation had been handled with Ivory. She wanted
      to get Ivory to adhere to wider streets that would help with congestion and
      traffic.

4.9   Tyler Fitts, resident, said that it seemed that the basis for Ivory’s appeal to be
      able to go with the previous DCMC rather than the current code was that the
      change occurred since they initially purchased and planned. He said that he
      thought that was a very valid excuse because a lot of residents bought land
      and houses through Ivory based on what they planned at the time and what

                                                                          Page 10 of 18
       they had been told. Ivory had changed their development plans since then.
       He said that Ivory had told him personally that there were things he could do
       on his lot that it turned out he could not. This demonstrated that sometimes
       we make plans and then things change. He didn’t think that when all the
       residents had to deal with that, that Ivory should be excluded from having to
       deal with similar consequences. He also wanted to reiterate the traffic
       concerns that were already expressed and how the 150 units that were coming
       into 1/6 of the space would impact the neighbors’ plans. He said that no one
       was excited about it. He felt like Ivory misled residents. He said that just
       because Ivory had started their plans he didn’t feel like that was a mitigating
       factor to have Draper go against its current ordinances.

4.10   Tyler Stokes, resident, reiterated what his neighbors had said. He wanted to
       express again what Mr. Fitts just stated. He did not think that the City of
       Draper should be doing Ivory any favors when Ivory had not been looking out
       for the best interests of the residents of Draper. He said that their primary
       concern was money over safety, over promises. He said that Ivory had shown
       residents plans who bought based on what they had been told. He said that
       Ivory intentionally misled residents, absolutely lied to them. It was not a
       misunderstanding or misinformation. He said that he didn’t feel like with that
       sort of reputation and how they had handled themselves, that the City of
       Draper, or that residents and taxpayers should be doing Ivory any favors.

4.11   Amy Cleveland, resident, agreed with what her neighbors had already said.
       She wanted to add one more thought. She said that she was an early
       childhood educator. For 15 years she had taught children right and wrong.
       She said that she had worked hard in her career to teach Draper’s children
       honesty, values, and morals. She said that her neighbors were not lying. They
       were all told something by Ivory, who had gone back on those promises and
       were asking the Council to change the rules. She said that on the playground,
       the rules were not changed for the bully. Rather, we stand up to the bully and
       say that an action was not okay. She said that she didn’t want to dumb the
       situation down, but that when you look at the big picture, Ivory was being a
       bully. They were trying to have the Draper Council change the code and screw
       the residents over for a few extra houses. She said that given the safety and
       traffic concerns, Ivory’s development proposal was not what Draper stood for
       and was not what the neighbors that she lived around wanted. She
       appreciated that many of the council members responded to her email and
       had taken the time to listen to residents’ concerns.

                                                                         Page 11 of 18
4.12   Shalise Staples, resident, said that she had a question. She said that her
       husband had brought up the issue of an area of development that wasn’t
       zoned for high-density. She asked if the Council was putting the horse before
       the carriage by approving plans that the land was not zoned for. She said that
       she was not familiar with the process and if they asked for driveways that the
       land was not zoned for if they could go back and say that it was already
       approved by the Council. She said that it looked like they were just spreading
       out their high density because they were not asking for more. However,
       spreading out the high density did not solve the problem. Holding them
       accountable to the space that was already given to them, which the Council
       should not have given to them in the first place, doesn’t make it better for
       current residents by spreading the high-density closer to the single-family
       homes. She said that she understood that the Fire Marshal said that Engelman
       Drive was zoned for one-side on-street parking. That was the only main city
       street for those townhomes and cottages to park on. She asked how the city
       would enforce only one side of the street being parked on. She asked what
       could be done to mitigate those issues. She said that if Ivory was going to be
       given high-density, how could on-street parking be prevented on the main
       through streets. She asked what the city could do to address the situation it
       caused.

4.13   Alyse Fitts, resident, said that Ivory sold residents a bill of good by telling
       buyers it would be a quiet, safe neighborhood. They were never told that part
       of the area was already zoned for high-density homes. They were also never
       told that the main access for the neighborhood would be off of 14000 South.
       She said that the entrance also provided access to a trail, park, new school,
       and church. She wanted to voice her concern that this was going to increase
       traffic and crime. It was not going to be a safe place for her kids to walk around
       the neighborhood.

4.14 Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

4.15   Before the public comment Bryon Prince, Vice-president of Ivory Development,
       provided some context to the process and progression of the development.
       He said that as a developer they were asking for the ability to proceed with the
       Phase 3 subdivision improvements while waiting on the Jensen Farm’s access
       road. They were asking for that approval because staff cannot accept the
       design for Phase 3 until the road is completed. He said that the intent in asking

                                                                           Page 12 of 18
for the ability to move forward with Phase 3 was so that they could start the
review process with staff because the ordinance would not allow the staff to
accept the application and stuff until the access was complete. The review
process was 90-120 days.

Mr. Prince then had trouble with his audio so Mayor Walker held the period
of public comment. After the public comment, Mr. Prince was able to speak
more clearly. He began by clarifying that Phase 6 did not change the original
plans for the Big Willow development that was approved in 2017. He said that
by 2019, Ivory Homes had acquired the additional property known as the
Holton Housing and Carlton Properties to add to the acreage and expand the
original Big Willow Creek subdivision. In December of 2019, the City Council
rezoned those properties to an R4 and an RM2. In April of 2020, Ivory made
an application for a minor subdivision plat on the new area known as Phase 6.
During that design process, Ivory realized that of the 141 lots that were allowed
based on the density, all the townhomes would be in the RM2 area and the
single-family homes would be in the R4. On May 5, 2020, they presented a
second amendment to the development agreement that allowed flexibility:
they could spread the density out across the 20 acres as opposed to
consolidating the townhomes in the RM2 and the single-family in the R4. The
intent of this was to be able to build more single-family detached homes and
fewer townhomes under the ordinances at the time. That amendment was
approved on May 5, 2020. He said that on May 19, 2020, the Council approved
the private lane ordinance. He said that he felt that was important to
understand. It was not six months or a year later; the code change happened
two weeks later. When the full subdivision plat was submitted to staff, they
realized that the Council had approved the ordinance a few weeks later and
staff recommended that the request to use the previous code be included in
an amendment. That was why Ivory Homes was before the Council tonight
with the request. He said that Ivory was not intending to get out of parking
standards. He said that the RM2 zone has parking standards that Ivory
intended to comply with. He said that the concept submitted for the Phase 6
area planned for full-length driveways in 90% of the lots. He said that was the
reason they had submitted the amendment.

Mr. Prince addressed the other part of the amendment. Per the city
ordinance, Ivory Homes could not submit the subdivision design for Phase 3
of the Big Willow Creek development until the Jensen Farms access road was
complete. They were asking for the ability to submit the design to staff to

                                                                   Page 13 of 18
commence the review and approval process that generally took 90-120 days.
He said that by the time the Phase 3 design review and approval occurred, the
Jensen Farms connection would be completed. This would allow Ivory Homes
to start the process with staff as opposed to having to wait until June or July.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that the Council had become aware that there
had not been an updated traffic study. He said that he was curious how Ivory
Homes knew that the proposed phase would work without the updated traffic
study. He asked what the current plan was based on.

Mr. Prince said that the only thing defined so far was the zone. He said that
they had the zoning and land use in place. Ivory Homes had submitted a
concept and preliminary plat. At that point staff and Ivory Homes realized that
the private lane ordinance had changed. Since then, the next phase of the
subdivision had been on hold. Regardless of the decision the Council made,
the process would be for Ivory Homes to present a new subdivision design that
complies with the ordinance. With that would come a traffic impact study that
would provide recommendations or impacts based on existing conditions or
surrounding conditions and the proposed design. At that point, there would
be proposed mitigations to address those impacts. He said the simple answer
was that when the time came, Ivory Homes would come up with a design that
addressed the traffic impact study. He said they did not have one today
because further planning had been put on hold once it was discovered that
the road standards had changed.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that his follow-up question was related to the
road standards. He said that if Ivory Homes recognized that the standards had
changed to better address traffic and safety concerns, why they would apply
to move forward to not comply with the updated standards that would
compromise the safety of residents to whom Ivory would be selling the homes
to.

Mr. Prince said that Ivory Homes had identified that changes had been made
within a week or two of approval and asked staff how they ought to proceed
and staff said that the matter should be taken to the Council. He said there
had never been a discussion with Ivory about why the changes were made.
Ivory was just told that the Council had amended the ordinance to widen the
streets. He said that he did not know if making roads bigger ensured that
people drove slower. He said that he thought that could have the opposite

                                                                   Page 14 of 18
       effect. When you make roads bigger, people drive faster. He said that he had
       not had that feedback from the Fire Department. He said that it was good to
       know that safety concerns were the driving force for the ordinance change.

4.16   Mayor Walker said that it sounded like Ivory was okay with complying with the
       new ordinance as it was written. They would just need to adjust the plan.

       Mr. Prince said that he said that they had brought a plan to the table last May
       with the intent to build more single-family homes and fewer townhomes. He
       said that he could appreciate the amendment made to private lane standards.
       He said that he understood why it was done now. He said that Ivory would go
       back to the drawing board to come up with a new design that complied with
       the ordinance. He said that it would have an impact on the design. Ivory likely
       would not be able to do as many single-family homes as was hoped. He said
       that he thought they would still be able to create a nice addition to Big Willow
       Creek.

       Mayor Walker said that he wanted to be clear that Mr. Prince understood the
       Council’s position on using the new code and that Ivory could make that work.
       Mr. Prince said yes.

4.17   Councilmember Vawdrey asked if staff could look up the zoning map to clarify
       zoning compliance.

       Ms. Oliver made some clarifications. She said that one of the citizens said that
       there were 456 homes. She said that they were talking about 256 over 70 acres
       or 3.6 units per acre. She said that there were some comments about
       residents not getting any say in this particular application. She wanted to go
       on the record that the rezones were noticed according to state code and
       DCMC. The rezone followed that process that the city was prescribed to follow
       and didn’t deviate from that process. She said that there was no provision for
       city employees to go out and further distribute notice beyond the limitations
       of the noticing. As for the rezone, one of the development amendments,
       amendment 2, allows for mixed housing. Although part of the area is zoned
       RM2 and part was RA2, the townhomes, and single-family homes could be
       inner dispersed. The development agreement allowed for that inner
       disbursement. She said that another item that was brought up was the
       question of how the city prevented the residents from parking on both sides
       of the street. She said that there were a lot of examples throughout the city

                                                                          Page 15 of 18
       where no parking signs had been posted and enforcement had been
       successful.

       Mr. Maxfield said that the current city policy was that on-street parking was
       allowed on public rights-of-way, but if it becomes an issue, parking was
       evaluated by the traffic committee. If need be, parking would be restricted in
       problem areas to improve safety. He said that these changes were typically
       reviewed after a street was constructed and inhabited.

4.18   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she was a little bit concerned about
       comments from the residents. She wanted to reiterate that the need for
       transparency cannot be overstated. She said that it was a priority for the
       Council that its residents felt comfortable and welcome to the city. She said
       that she felt like this was an unfortunate and misguided attempt to welcome
       people to Draper. She said that she was glad that Mr. Prince had reached out
       to residents. She wanted to hear his thoughts on the issue.

       Mr. Prince said that it seemed like Councilmember T. Lowery’s question was
       concerning the acreage that was added to Big Willow Creek. He said that as it
       had been mentioned, the development had been a process. In 2019 the area
       went through a few different rezones to add the Carlson and Holton Housing
       properties that changed the zone to residential use. He said that the vision for
       the Phase 6 area was not well defined because Ivory Homes was working
       through the land use first and then looking at how to incorporate an actual
       subdivision design into the original Big Willow Creek design. He said that Ivory
       Homes still had not gotten there and was still just in the land use stage. They
       have never been able to define what the new acreage would be as a
       subdivision. He said that Ivory could have done a better job, a conversation
       he had with many of the residents, of communicating about the additional
       acreage that Ivory proposed to add and expand the subdivision. He thought
       that the perspective of the addition being negative as opposed to positive was
       a subjective opinion. Ivory saw this as a positive addition to the Big Willow
       Creek master plan. Some residents did not feel the same way and thought it
       would be negative. He felt that Ivory’s goal going forward would be to improve
       communication with existing residents and ultimately come up with a design
       that was attractive and provide some new homes that were different than
       what was approved in the original 50 acres but were nice homes and a positive
       addition to the neighborhood.



                                                                          Page 16 of 18
4.19   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he was trying to determine what was the
       best direction for the Council to take on the item. Ms. Oliver said that the staff
       had provided two different actions. The first would allow for the build-out to
       continue with previous code standards. The second allowed for utility
       development only under current code standards. This would mean that Ivory
       would have to abide by the wider road widths and driveways.

       Mayor Walker said that it was within the Council’s rules that they could take
       more time to think about the item and read over materials by moving the item
       to the next meeting.

       Councilmember F. Lowry wanted to make it clear that the Council wanted to
       do the right thing on behalf of the residents and to be fair to Ivory Homes.

       Ms. Oliver said that Ordinance #1487 would approve the Big Willow Creek 3rd
       Amendment Development agreement under prior DCMC standards. The
       Planning Commission recommendation for Ordinance #1487 would require
       Ivory to continue development with the new standards. The ordinance had
       already been re-drafted. Specifying the passage of the Planning Commission
       recommendation would still pass Ordinance #1487 and would only allow for
       the development of the Phase 3 infrastructure before the secondary access
       being constructed or bonded for.

4.20   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1487 the Planning
       Commission version, approving the Big Willow Creek 3rd Amendment
       Development Agreement. Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

4.21   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

**     Councilmember Green left the meeting at 8:22 pm

5.0    Council/Manager Reports

5.1    No reports were given.

6.0    Adjournment




                                                                           Page 17 of 18
6.1   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

6.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:22 p.m.




                                                                    Page 18 of 18
