                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                             April 8, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 22, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper @draperutah.gov

Re:     Rosee Florals – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-0031-2021
        Applicant:        Sandy Mataele
        Project Location: 14636 S. Snow Leopard Ln.
        Current Zoning: RM (Residential Multifamily) Zone
        Acreage:          0.23 Acres (Approximately 10,019 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit for a home based business in the RM zone regarding floral
                          arranging.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.23 acres located on the west side of Snow Leopard Lane, at approximately
14636 S. Snow Leopard Lane (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RM and is part of
the Master Development Agreement for the Hidden Canyon Estates, Mercer Mountain
Estates, And Lakeview Heights Properties Development Agreement recorded May 14, 2015
as entry number 12050023 with the Salt Lake County Recorder and as entry number
41579:2015 with the Utah County Recorder (the “Agreement”), and is subject to the
provisions of that development agreement, as amended. The agreement did not contain
certain standards for Home Occupation Conditional Use Permits and accordingly the
current City ordinances governing such are applicable to this property. The applicant is
requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for the
operation of floral arranging services from the home.




Rosee Florals                                                      App. #USE-0031-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RM zoning classification, supporting approximately
twelve (12) dwelling units per acre (Exhibit D). According to the 1999 Draper City Municipal
Code (DCMC) Section 9-4-030 the purpose of the RM zone is to “to provide areas for low-to-
medium residential density with the opportunity for varied housing styles and character,
providing for a maximum density of up to twelve (12) units per acre for medium to high density
residential unit project subject to conditional-use permit procedures and conditions of this type
of use and based on minimum development guidelines adopted by the City”.

The RM zoning abuts the subject property on all sides. There are no specific provisions in




Rosee Florals                                                            App. #USE-0031-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
the Agreement, as amended, related to Home Occupations and Conditional Use Permits,
accordingly the current provisions in Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Chapter 9-34
apply to this request.



Home Occupation. The applicant is a resident of the home and desires to provide floral
arranging services to Draper City Residents and other clients with consultations taking
place primarily through the use of virtual meetings over phone or internet. The operation
of the business at the residence is limited in area and scope to the artist’s kitchen area. The
applicant’s responses to the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit questions can be
found in Exhibit F.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             The applicant owns and lives in the home where the business will be located and
             will be the sole employee of the business.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             Upon approval of the conditional use permit the application will be required to
             obtain a business license, per the standards outlined in Title 6 of the DCMC.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

             The applicant is one of the homeowners and will not be employing nonfamily or
             nonresident employees.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             The applicant will be required to comply with this section if/when the need
             arises. Inspections are part of the business license review process.




Rosee Florals                                                                App. #USE-0031-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     3
        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             The applicant has indicated that they will be conducting the entire business from
             an area within their kitchen which is approximately 81 ft2 in size. Outside storage
             is neither planned nor permitted.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.

             There will be no exterior modifications made to the home. All business activities
             will take place inside the dwelling in the kitchen area (see Exhibits E and F). There
             is sufficient area on the existing driveway to accommodate the one additional
             parking space needed if a customer does need to come to the home. The
             applicant reports that most consultations will be held via online virtual meetings
             and that except in rare occasions the finished products are primarily delivered to
             clients off-site.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             The owner reports that this will be a lovely smelling business and that operation
             of the business will not create any offensive odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
             magnetic interference, or noise that would interfere with the peace or
             enjoyment of others outside of the property.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.

             The space being occupied by the business will only a portion of the kitchen area
             as a workspace. The area utilized for the business will be approximately 6.9% of
             the finished floor area, much less than the 25% limit.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.




Rosee Florals                                                               App. #USE-0031-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
             No signs have been proposed with the application. If a sign is added at a later
             date it will be required to comply with chapter 26 of the DCMC.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             As customers coming to the home would be on an occasional and very limited
             basis, there will be no impacts to traffic, parking or access. A condition of
             approval has been included that any customers coming to the home be required
             to park in the drive-way.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.

             No vehicles will be associated with the business outside of the business owner’s
             existing personal transportation. There is no signage related to the business on
             their vehicles.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             This business will not store anything outdoors.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             This business operates primarily online and at off-site venues and customers
             would rarely be coming to the residence. Customers coming to the residence
             can be permitted under DCMC section 9-34-060 alteration to standards. The
             applicant is requesting approval for the ability to have up to one customer per
             day coming to the residence.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             This business will not increase utility demand in excess of that customary to the
             principal residential use.




Rosee Florals                                                               App. #USE-0031-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     5
        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             All business activities will take place inside the primary dwelling structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.

             This business fits within the allowable list of conditional use home occupations
             as a cottage business. The property is not a multifamily property and therefore
             is not subject to those provisions applicable to multifamily properties.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             This business does not provide child care, is not a cottage food production
             operation, and is not a food related home occupation.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
           of a conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
               where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
               zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
               mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
               These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
               character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and
               other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such



Rosee Florals                                                             App. #USE-0031-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
                conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
                conditional use permit.
             3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
                use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
                conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional
                use may be denied.
             4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
                whether a conditional use permit application should be approved, approved
                with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be
                imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                     and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
                b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                     existing development in the vicinity;
                d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                     area;
                e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                     area;
                f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                     transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                     screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and
                     vehicular circulation;
                g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                     emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                     proposed facility or use; and
                h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                     welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
                     the area.
             5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
                reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
                subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Rosee Florals                                                         App. #USE-0031-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That the home occupation business be conducted as described, with no
                 additional employees beyond the owner, and with no more than one (1)
                 customer coming to the home per day.
        2.       That the home occupation maintain compliance with all other ordinance
                 requirements for home based businesses, including but not limited to the
                 storage of materials and limits to that area of the dwelling utilized for the
                 home occupation.
        3.       Any future signage shall comply with DCMC Chapter 9-26.
        4.       The business comply with all local, county, and state licensing standards.
        5.       Customer parking shall be located on the driveway and there be no on-street
                 parking by customers.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.



Rosee Florals                                                          App. #USE-0031-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Sandy Mataele for Rosee Florals, application USE-0031-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 8,
2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sandy Mataele for Rosee Florals, application USE-
0031-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated April 8, 2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions.

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Sandy Mataele for Rosee Florals, application USE-0031-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 8, 2021.




Rosee Florals                                                         App. #USE-0031-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

We have reviewed the subject home occupation conditional use permit (CUP) application
according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our understanding that
the applicant is requesting a conditional use permit to create floral arrangements located
at the subject address. Accordingly, we offer the following comments related to the
engineering findings, including the following:

       1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
              and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
              impacted by the proposed use. The number of trips generated by potential
              employee(s), the owner is the only employee, will not have a detrimental
              impact to the area due to the nature of the residence and the availability of
              onsite parking in the driveway at the residence. The applicant states
              customers will come to the residences one at a time or at maximum two
              customers will be expected at the business. The subject residence has a
              three-car garage and driveway with adequate off-street parking for the
              customer(s). Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated
              to generate a significant impact to traffic, water, sewer, or other utilities;
       2.     Parking is available at the residence, and Engineering recommends that all
              parking be in the driveway of the residence. The fronting public street is the
              typical residential street but may be impacted by snow or neighborhood
              traffic and therefore should not be the primary parking location. Onsite
              parking is especially important during winter months when there may be
              excessive snow on the street and where on-street parking may be a safety
              issue;
       3.     Traffic circulation in the area is not anticipated to be negatively impacted.
              General access to the residence is from Snow Leopard Lane, a residential
              street. Based on the requested use, the anticipated increase in traffic is
              insignificant, from a single customer, and will not impact street functionality
              in the neighborhood or at intersections accessing the residence.
       4.      The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or
               general welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
               to the property or improvements in the vicinity based on the proposed
               shipping and delivery portion of the business, limited number of customers
               onsite, and the few employees working at the site.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments



Fire Division Review.

Thank you for submitting your plans for the Rosee Florals Home Occ. project. Please review
all comments contained in this letter. This project SHALL, be designed to meet all
requirements of the 2018 International Fire Code. Please contact the Fire Marshal Don
Buckley at (801) 824-3714 for any and all inspections or questions.

       1.      2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
               serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to
               be located in a conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and
               immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or
               not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not
               more than five (5) feet above the floor.

       2.      Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
               address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
               property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
           EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN AND MAIN FLOOR PLAN
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
