Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: October 19, 2021
Re: Day Dairy Medical Use – Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to the CSD-DD zone located at approximately 527 East 12300 South. The applicant is requesting that a Text Amendment be approved to allow for Medical Service uses to be permitted in the CSD-DD.
The Planning Commission heard this item at the September 23, 2021 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.   The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.   The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.   The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.   The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.   The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.   The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.   The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.   The proposed text amendment does not implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1503 9/27/2021 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 9/27/2021 Cover Memo