                                        ORDINANCE NO. 1476

         AN ORDINANCE OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL ESTABLISHING A
         TEMPORARY LAND USE REGULATION PERMITTING TEMPORARY MOBILE
         COVID-19 MEDICAL SERVICE CLINICS.


         WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has been
established to provide regulations concerning general land uses within the City Boundaries; and

         WHEREAS, Draper City recognizes a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19
virus; and

         WHEREAS, Draper City finds that COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the
health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents; and

       WHEREAS, Draper City recognizes the need for additional physical locations to provide more
widespread testing and vaccination relative to managing and abating the global pandemic; and

         WHEREAS, temporarily allowing Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinics to provide COVID-
19 testing and/or COVID-19 vaccinations will serve the citizens of Draper while following recommended
safety guidelines in compliance with state and local public health orders; and

        WHEREAS, permitting temporary mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinics serves a
compelling countervailing public interest that protects the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
Draper as well as the economic viability of important Draper businesses.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

         Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City hereby finds a compelling, countervailing
public interest in enacting the temporary land use regulations contained in Exhibit A. The city council
finds the proposed ordinance is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
Draper. The City Council finds that the promulgated temporary land use regulations ensure compliance
with local and state orders while simultaneously protecting the citizens of Draper.

         Section 2. Duration. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-504, this Ordinance shall last for the
earlier of a period of six (6) months or until otherwise rescinded by the legislative body.

        Section 3. Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to correct any
punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors prior to submitting the Ordinance for
publication.

         Section 4. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon publication or
posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever occurs first.


Ordinance No. 1476                                   1                              Temporary Land Use Ordinance
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE _____ DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2021

                                         DRAPER CITY


                                         _____________________________
                                         Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder


 VOTE TAKEN:                              YES                NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1476                   2                     Temporary Land Use Ordinance
                                               EXHIBIT A

TITLE: Temporary Land Use Regulation permitting the use of temporary Mobile COVID-19 Medical
Service Clinics.

PURPOSE: To set temporary ordinance standards for Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinics.

SCOPE: Applicable to all Commercial, Commercial Special District, or Transit Station District zoned
properties where Medical Service use is listed as a permitted use in Title 9 of the Draper City Municipal
Code (DCMC).

DEFINITIONS:

         ADULT STAFF MEMBER: A person 18 years of age or older who is an employee of temporary
         mobile medical service clinic and capable of providing for the supervision and direction of
         others.

         CANOPY: A temporary structure as described in International Fire code Chapter 31: A structure
         or architectural projection of rigid construction over which a covering is attached that provides
         weather protection, identity or decoration, and may be structurally independent or supported
         by attachment to a building on one end and by not less than one stanchion on the outer end.

         CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS: Shall have the same meaning and definition as contained in
         Section 3103.6 of the International Fire Code.

         MEDICAL SERVICE: An establishment providing therapeutic, preventive, or corrective personal
         treatment services on an outpatient basis by physicians, dentists, and other practitioners of the
         medical or healing arts, as well as the provision of medical testing and analysis services.

         MEDICAL SERVICE STATION: The location, or locations, within a Mobile COVID-19 Medical
         Service Clinic where the specific medical services of the clinic are directly rendered to patients.

         MOBILE COVID-19 MEDICAL SERVICE CLINIC: A temporary establishment typically operating
         from a portable office trailer(s), mobile medical unit(s), tent(s), canopy(s), and appurtenances
         providing drive-through or limited walk-up COVID-19 medical testing and analysis services
         and/or related vaccinations on an outpatient basis.

         MOBILE MEDICAL UNIT: Motor vehicles such as busses or motor coaches outfitted with medical
         equipment, furnishings, and furniture designed to provide outpatient medical services.

         PORTABLE OFFICE TRAILER: Portable buildings or trailers used on a temporary basis to provide
         on-site office space including ancillary storage space.

         TENT: A temporary structure as described in International Fire Code Chapter 31: A structure,
         enclosure, umbrella structure or shelter, with or without sidewalls or drops, constructed of
         fabric or pliable material supported in any manner except by air or the contents it protects.


Ordinance No. 1476                                    3                               Temporary Land Use Ordinance
         QUEUING SPACE: A queued arrangement of parking spaces on a property where vehicles wait or
         park for a limited or short duration while waiting to occupy the next available space in the
         queue. Such spaces are provided for driver convenience in accessing on-site services at drive-up
         windows, automated teller machines, vehicle service or wash bays, fuel islands, or designated
         pick-up or drop-off area for goods and/or passengers. This definition also applies in reference to
         stacking spaces and aisles, and drive-through lanes and aisles, but does not include freight
         parking or deliveries to a site by commercial vehicles.



LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:

The Provisions of Title 9 of the Draper City Municipal Code shall continue to apply except as specifically
modified below with respects to the stated purpose and intent of this temporary ordinance:

    A. Zoning: Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinics shall be permitted in all Commercial,
       Commercial Special District, and Transit Station District zones where Medical Services are listed
       as a permitted use.

    B. Application:
          1. Applications shall be made utilizing the Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinic
               application form provided by the Community Development Department and shall
               include primary and emergency contact information and other details requested with
               that form.
          2. Each application must include:
                     a. A scaled site plan illustrating:
                            1. The property lines, existing building(s) on the property, existing paved
                               parking, location of landscaping, internal vehicular circulation aisles,
                               queuing spaces, location of proposed portable office trailer(s), mobile
                               medical unit(s), tent(s), canopy(s), and appurtenances associated with
                               the proposed Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinic;
                            2. The distances between the permanent structures on site and the
                               proposed portable office trailer(s), mobile medical unit(s), tent(s),
                               canopy(s), and appurtenances;
                            3. The proposed plan for traffic circulation including queuing spaces and
                               vehicular access to and from the Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service
                               Clinic;
                            4. The proposed method for marking traffic and circulation control;
                            5. The location of parking for patient observation (as needed);
                            6. The location of parking for staff of the Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service
                               Clinic;
                            7. That the location will not impede public safety or emergency vehicle
                               access to and from the property and that vehicular circulation on
                               subject property or adjacent properties, is not unduly compromised or
                               restricted;

Ordinance No. 1476                                   4                              Temporary Land Use Ordinance
                             8. How pedestrian mobility across all sidewalks and pedestrian walkways
                                  will be maintained;
                             9. That the location does not cause limited visibility for the public right of
                                  way or in parking lots; and
                             10. The ingress and egress from adjacent building(s).
                       b. A floor plan showing interior set up of the portable office trailer(s), mobile
                           medical unit(s), tent(s), canopy(s), and appurtenances that will be utilized.
                           Plans shall include electrical locations, and the location and type of any
                           heating.
                       c. A detailed written plan regarding facility operations and security.
                       d. An affidavit from the property owner.
              3. The city has 15 business days from submission to review the application.

    C. Location:
           1. Each Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinic must be located on a site with an existing
               commercial building that provides the following:
                     a. Restroom access for employees and patrons of the mobile Medical Service
                         Clinic. No portable chemical toilets or temporary restroom facilities are
                         permitted for use with the Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinic
                     b. Access to electrical power. The use of portable generators as a power supply
                         is not permitted.
           2. Portable office trailer(s), mobile medical unit(s), tent(s), canopy(s), and appurtenances
               may only be installed or located on existing asphalt or concrete surfaced areas of the
               property.
           3. Facilities may not be located on or within a public right of way.
           4. Facilities may not encroach into landscaped areas of the property.
           5. ADA parking stalls and other ADA facilities associated with the permanent building on
               site must remain accessible at all times.

    D. Operational Requirements:
          1. Operational hours are limited to between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Monday through
              Sunday.
          2. Use of portable office trailer(s), mobile medical unit(s), tent(s), canopy(s), and
              appurtenances may be subject to other agreements and regulations, including, but not
              limited to, a lease agreement with a landlord and compliance with regulations of the
              State and County. Approval from the city under this ordinance does not absolve the
              owner or operator from any obligations under such agreements or regulations.

     E. Anchoring and Setbacks:
           1. Any tents and canopies used shall be properly secured in case of wind (40 mph basic
               wind speed and 90 mph 3 second gust). Securing of the structures is the responsibility of
               the owner/operator.
           2. Tents and canopies must be anchored by water, cement or sand barrels and may not be
               anchored by staking.
Ordinance No. 1476                                    5                              Temporary Land Use Ordinance
              3. Portable office trailers and other structures moved onto a site shall be tied down and
                 meet all safety requirements of the International Building Code.
              4. Portable office trailer(s), mobile medical unit(s), tent(s), canopy(s), and appurtenances
                 shall be set back from buildings and other portable office trailer(s), mobile medical
                 unit(s), tent(s), canopy(s), and appurtenances as required by International Building Code
                 and the International Fire Code.

    F. Fire Safety:
           1. Owners and operators shall comply with International Fire Code. A permit from the Fire
                Marshal is required.
           2. A full set of construction documents for portable office trailer(s), tent(s), canopy(s), and
                appurtenances including structural calculations and detailed drawings of framing
                connections are required and must be approved by the Fire Marshal.
           3. All portable office trailer(s), mobile medical unit(s), tent(s), canopy(s), and
                appurtenances must include portable fire extinguishers with a rating in compliance with
                International Fire Code for the size and type of structure.
           4. Exits must be marked and lighted in compliance with the International Fire Code.
           5. Compressed gas bottles used for heating must be secured from tipping.
           6. An emergency evacuation plan shall be posted in a conspicuous place, and an adult staff
                member who is trained in the extinguishment of fires and evacuation of staff and
                patrons must be present when the Mobile COVID-19 Medical Services Clinic is open.
           7. No combustible waste can be stored within 30 feet portable office trailer(s), mobile
                medical unit(s), tent(s), canopy(s), and appurtenances
           8. The California State Fire Marshal’s flame retardant certification seal must be visibly
                displayed on any tent or canopy utilized as part of a Mobile COVID-19 Medical Services
                Clinic.
           9. No smoking shall be permitted within the areas of the property utilized by the Mobile
                COVID-19 Medical Services Clinic and no smoking signs shall be posted.

    G. Licensing:
           1. Operators of Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinics shall provide evidence of all
               required State and County licenses and permits required for operation.
           2. Operators of Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinics shall obtain a Draper City Business
               License before commencing operations.

    H. Appointments, Parking and Vehicular Circulation:
          1. Services are typically rendered in a drive-through fashion to those waiting in personal
              vehicles; however limited walk-up service may also be permitted. All services must be
              conducted on an appointment basis.
          2. Parking requirements for current existing permanent uses on site may be temporarily
              reduced to accommodate the Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinic use. Available
              parking for other existing on-site uses may not be reduced by more than 30%.
          3. Queuing spaces and aisles shall be shown on the proposed site plan including the
              method for providing traffic marking and circulation control.
Ordinance No. 1476                                   6                             Temporary Land Use Ordinance
              4. Approval of the Fire Marshal shall be required for all access and vehicular circulation
                 plans to ensure that adequate access is available for public safety and emergency
                 vehicles.
              5. Number of vehicles accessing the site may not exceed 60 vehicle appointments per
                 hour. An increased number of appointments per hour may be approved by the City
                 Engineer if the operator is able to provide a traffic study stamped by a licensed traffic
                 engineer justifying the increase that shows that the additional impact to the existing
                 roadway system can be accommodated without additional changes to the existing
                 infrastructure or creating a level of service failure.

    I.   Security:
            1. The applicant shall provide details as part of the site plan application regarding how the
                 operation will be secured against unauthorized entry or other security threats.
            2. Temporary security lighting (if utilized) shall be shielded and directed downwards
                 towards the ground. When a temporary medical services use is adjacent to a residential
                 use or zone the intensity may not exceed .2 foot candles at the property line.

    J.   Signage:
             1. All signs associated with the Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinic shall be temporary
                 and shall be removed at the same time the Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinic is
                 removed from the site.
             2. Signage for Mobile COVID-19 Medical Services Clinics shall comply with the following:
                       a. Signs shall not be:
                                 1. Illuminated unless by way of indirect lighting sources;
                                 2. Placed in any public or private right of way, park strips, medians, or
                                    roundabouts;
                                 3. Placed in a manner that creates a traffic hazard in a clear view area; or
                                 4. Placed in a manner that obstructs the view of any official signs as
                                    identified in subsection 9-26-100A of DCMC Title 9.
                       b. Signs shall:
                                 1. Only be erected upon issuance of a temporary sign permit prior to
                                    installation;
                                 2. Be set back beyond the farthest most part of the permanent ground
                                    mounted signage on the same property that fronts the same property
                                    line; and
                                 3. Be securely attached to a structure, fence, or to ground posts.
                        c. When mounted to the ground, banners or other temporary signs may be not
                           higher than forty eight inches (48") from the ground to the top of the sign and
                           must have a stabilizing crossbar between the ground posts at the top of the
                           sign;
                       d. One temporary sign is permitted per street frontage and is limited to a
                           maximum size of thirty two (32) square feet;
                       e. Signs may be two (2) faced but may not be split faced as identified in
                           subsection 9-26-060(H)(2) of DCMC Title 9;
Ordinance No. 1476                                     7                              Temporary Land Use Ordinance
                     f. All informational or directional signage shall not exceed more than 4 ft² per
                        sign and shall be no more than 3 feet in height; and
                     g. Permission for the placement of signs from property owners shall be required
                        as a part of an application for the temporary signage permit.

    K. Duration: Use and all related appurtenances of a mobile medical services clinic permitted under
       this temporary ordinance must be removed from the property no later than six months from the
       date this ordinance is enacted or within five (5) business days of the repeal of this temporary
       ordinance, whichever is sooner.

    L. Inspections: Authorized law enforcement officers, zoning enforcement officers, fire control
       officers, and other governmental personnel shall be permitted access to make inspections to
       ensure compliance with the provisions of this section and all other applicable laws.




Ordinance No. 1476                                8                             Temporary Land Use Ordinance
