                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, Utah 84020



                                         STAFF REPORT
                                        September 28, 2021

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: October 14, 2021

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By:        Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                    Planning Division
                    Community Development Department
                    (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Crosspoint CSD—Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment Requests
        Application Nos.: TA-051-2018 (Zoning Text Amendment) and GPMA-002-2018
                          (Zoning Map Amendment)
        Applicant:        Ralph Johnson of Utah Capital, LLC
        Project Location: Approximately 166 E. Highland Drive
        Current Zoning:   CR (Regional Commercial) Zone
        Acreage:          Approximately 17.26 acres (approximately 751,845 square feet)
        Request:          A request to create a new commercial special district and
                          rezone the subject property the Crosspoint Commercial Special
                          District. The proposed district standards will be located in
                          Chapter 9-18 of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) and
                          the new zoning designation would be Crosspoint Commercial
                          Special District (CSD-CP).

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a zoning text and zoning map amendment for
approximately 17.26 acres located at approximately 166 E. Highland Drive (see Exhibit B).
The property is currently zoned CR. The applicant is requesting to rezone the property to
create a new commercial district called the Crosspoint Commercial Special District (CSD-


Crosspoint CSD                                         Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments           1
CP). The proposed CSD-CP zone will be located in Chapter 9-18 (Commercial Special
Districts) in the DCMC.

The subject property is vacant and has never been developed. The site has been zoned as
CR since at least 2001. The Planning Commission previously considering this application at
their December 17, 2020 meeting. At that meeting, the request was unanimously
continued to a date uncertain so the applicant could make changes to the proposed CSD
text. The applicant has provided a response to the December 17, 2020 staff report and is
included at Exhibit F.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan identifies the site as the
Community Commercial land use designation (see Exhibit C). This categories are
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the CR zoning classification (see Exhibit D). DCMC Section
9-8-020(C)(3) states: “The purpose of the CR zone is to provide areas where a combination

Crosspoint CSD                                      Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments       2
of destination oriented business, retail commercial, entertainment, and related uses may
be established, maintained and protected to serve both residents and nonresidents of the
city. Typical uses in this zone include large scale, master planned commercial centers with
outlying commercial pads, big box stores, offices, and various types of high density
residential uses.”

The property is surrounded by a mix of zoning designations. Across Highland Drive to the
north is the Highline Commercial Special District (CSD-Highline) and CR at the corner of
Bangerter Parkway and Highland Drive. Across Traverse Ridge Road is another area of CR
zoning. To the south is CR with the Draper South Point Mixed Use project and RM2
(Residential Multiple Family Residential, 12 dwelling units per acre). To the west is CR
zoning.

Proposed CSD
Staff has completed several reviews of the proposed text and have worked with the
applicant to create the CSD that is included as Exhibit E. At this time, after the several
reviews, there are some items included with the CSD that the applicant would like to
include, but staff has concerns about. Those items will be discussed in detail below.

The proposed CSD is a retail and office development. The text of the CSD provides a list of
permitted uses and standards for the following: buildings, landscape, parking, lighting,
signs and retaining walls. The concept plan included in the proposed CSD has office as the
primary use with retail at the corner of Highland Drive and Traverse Ridge Road. Each
section is analyzed below with descriptions on staff’s concerns in the proposed text.

Purpose
The purpose statements describes the location of the proposed CSD and the different
elements of the CSD (i.e., uses, design standards, site design, etc.). A portion of the last
sentence of the purpose paragraph states ‘while providing amenities to the city residents
such as access to trails and open space’. This project does not propose to install any trails
and it should be removed.

Permitted Uses
The CSD provides a listing of permitted uses, there are no conditional uses shown in the
text. The permitted uses proposed are all permitted uses under the current CR zoning
except for one. The CR zone lists ‘Higher education facility, private’ as a conditional use.
The proposed CSD would allow this use as permitted.

One permitted use must be added in order to comply with state law. Staff recommends
that ‘medical cannabis facility’ is added as a permitted use. The use is currently permitted
in all zones, including all CSD’s, within the city in conformance to state law standards.
However, state law does limit the number of facilities to one in a city with a population of
40,000 residents.

Crosspoint CSD                                          Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments          3
Development Standards
There are two sections to the development standards for the CSD. One section is the
standards for office buildings and the other section is for retail buildings. The office
building standards require variation in the wall plane for structures and variable window
heights. Primary materials include those typically found in Section 9-22 (Design Standards
and Guidelines) of the DCMC with the exception of exterior insulation and finish system
(EIFS) being allowed as a primary material. Similar to the permitted uses, this is a material
that has typically been allowed within many CSD’s. The text of the CSD only mentions that
more than two primary material is required, but there is no minimum percent of the
building façade that must be the primary material. Section 9-22 of the DCMC requires that
primary materials consist of at least 75% of each façade. The CSD text does state that each
façade shall contain a minimum of 40% high efficiency glass.

Office buildings can be up to four stories in height with a maximum height of 60 feet as
measured to the top of the parapet. This is 15 feet taller than what would be allowed by
the current CR zoning of the property. In addition to the extra height of the buildings, all
rooftop mounted mechanical equipment is proposed to be screened with a screening wall
no more than ten feet tall (Sections 9-18M-030(A)(1)(e) and 9-18M-030(B)(1)). The text of
the CSD shows the two office buildings on the western side of the project to be four stories
in height. The third office building could be two, three or four stories. Any two or three
story office building is required to be setback a minimum of ten-feet from Highland Drive
and a four story office building would need to be setback a minimum of 20-feet. The office
development is also required to have public space and connections between the parking,
sidewalks and roadways. There is a note in the amenities section that lots under separate
ownership in the CSD need to provide cross access. The text of the CSD allows for two
story buildings at 30 feet, three story buildings at 45 feet and the four story buildings are
the ones that can be 60 feet.

Retail buildings would be limited to one story and 22-feet in height. A typical one story
retail building that is approximately 22-feet in height is typically a pad site in a multi-tenant
shopping center. Bangerter Crossing has several pad buildings (Kneaders, Taco Time,
Burger King, etc.) along Bangerter Highway and those would be approximately 22-feet tall.
The allowed building materials are the same as the office and a minimum of two materials
on all facades is required. There is language that multi-tenant buildings have the same
primary materials and standalone buildings are permitted to utilize corporate architecture,
if desired. The minimum setback from the two streets the retail is proposed to abut is ten
feet. The retail component has been updated to show a minimum twenty-foot buffer
between the retail and residential to the south (Section 9-18M-040)(B)(3). The concept plan
shows four retail buildings, and has been updated to show that all four buildings with
potential drive-thru lanes.




Crosspoint CSD                                          Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments           4
          Development Standard               Proposed CSD                    Current DCMC
                                                                              Regulations
                                                                       Two primary materials per
                                                                        building and at least 75%
              Primary Materials           At least two required
                                                                         of the façade must be
                                                                                 primary
                                                                        Can be up to 25% of the
            Secondary Materials                      N/A
                                                                             building facade
                 Lot Coverage                      N/A                             60%
                                             Up to 60 feet. A
                                                                        45 feet in CR zone. Does
             Maximum Building             mechanical screening
                                                                         not include mechanical
                  Height                 wall, up to 10 feet tall,
                                                                                screening.
                                            would be allowed
                                        Office must have at least
            High Efficiency Glass       40%. No requirement for                      N/A
                                                  retail.
                                                                        Variation at least every 30
                                                                         feet for at least 60% of a
             Façade Articulation                     N/A
                                                                         horizontal length of 100
                                                                                feet or more

        Staff Concerns
        Section 9-18M-030(A)(1)(c) – Page 2 of Exhibit E
        This section includes requirements found in another section already. It’s stating
        that buildings must have 40% high efficiency glass, which staff is agreeable to, but
        the rest of the statement about primary materials is not clear. Primary material
        requirements are covered in section 9-18M-030(A)(1)(b). This section should be
        updated.

        Section 9-18M-030(A)(1)(b) and 9-18M-030(B)(3)– Pages 2 and 3 of Exhibit E
        There is no provision for a minimum amount of primary materials. It should be
        made clear that a minimum percentage of primary materials is required. Staff
        would recommend a minimum of 75%.

        Section 9-18M-030(A)(1)(g)– Page 3 of Exhibit E
        The setbacks should be clarified to be from any public right of way. The only
        setback called out is from Highland Drive. Roadways that need to also be
        considered are Traverse Ridge Road and 65 East.

        Section 9-18M-030(A)(2)(b) – Page 3 of Exhibit E
        The last sentence of subsection b notes that cross access is to be required when
        there is separate ownership of lots within the CSD. Staff would suggest that this


Crosspoint CSD                                             Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments            5
        section is expanded to include cross access across any property line and with any
        adjacent development, specifically the Draper South Point Development (also
        known as Seasons). The proposed concept plan shows a one way, twenty-four foot
        wide access between the proposed CSD and the already developed Draper South
        Point. In addition, the Fire Marshal has indicated that access is needed between the
        two properties and the original approval for Draper South Point was based on the
        access being in place. Staff disagrees with the applicant’s request that this be a one-
        way access. In order for all public safety to adequately access the site, a two-way
        access is a better option. Especially with a proposed hospital use within the
        boundaries of the CSD. A discussion of the section of the CSD related to the access
        will be discussed late in this report.

        Section 9-18M-030(A)(2)– Page 3 of Exhibit E
        The office amenities section references an ‘office park’ which is not a defined term in
        the CSD. Staff would suggest this term is not used unless it is defined.

        Section 9-18M-030(B)(7)– Page 3 of Exhibit E
        The setbacks should be clarified to be from any public right of way. The only
        setback called out is from Highland Drive and Traverse Ridge Road. 65 East should
        also be included.

Landscape Standards
The applicant has provided some general standards regarding plantings and irrigation for
the landscaping. The text of the proposed CSD requires a buffer between the office
development and the residential to the south, and has been updated to require a twenty
foot buffer (Section 9-18M-040(B)(3)). In addition, the CSD has been updated to require a
six foot wall between the CSD and adjacent residentially zoned properties (Section 9-18M-
040(B)(1)) and the CSD now provides a 20% minimum standard for the overall proposed
percentage of landscaping (Section 9-18M-040(A)(4)). The applicant has also provided a list
of standard planting materials for the CSD with a note that other planting materials can be
proposed upon the recommendation of a landscape architect.

          Development Standard               Proposed CSD                    Current DCMC
                                                                              Regulations
                                                                       Minimum 20 feet between
             Landscape Buffers                   20 feet                    commercial and
                                                                               residential
                                        Minimum of one tree per        Minimum of one tree per
                Trees in Buffer
                                        400 square feet of buffer      400 square feet of buffer
                                        Six foot masonry, precast      Six foot masonry, precast
                                         concrete or lightweight        concrete or lightweight
                    Fencing
                                         precast fiber reinforced       precast fiber reinforced
                                                 concrete.                      concrete.

Crosspoint CSD                                             Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments           6
            Minimum Amount of
                                                   20%                             20%
                Landscaping

        Staff Concerns
        Section 9-18M-040(A)(4) – Page 4 of Exhibit E
        The applicant has updated the minimum amount of landscaping in the section to be
        20% overall. Staff agrees with the first sentence requiring this for all phases of the
        CSD. Staff does have concerns with the rest of the section which allows the 20% to
        be split among different phases as it has been done in other CSD’s and is very
        difficult to enforce and keep track of. It is best to evenly distribute the minimum
        landscaping throughout the development and have a minimum of 20% for each
        phase.

        Section 9-18M-040(B)(4) – Page 5 of Exhibit E
        The CSD language allows the landscape buffer area to be installed in phases as each
        building phase is constructed. This request could have a direct effect on adjacent
        property owners during construction and after occupancy on a building. Staff
        recommends the buffer be required with the first site plan for the project and the
        first site plan and associated buildings will not receive a certificate of occupancy
        until the buffer is installed and planted.

Parking Standards
Most of the approved CSD’s have a range of parking required for the uses in the CSD. The
proposed CSD also includes a range of parking. The proposed parking requirement has
been updated to show minimum ranges for office and medical uses and restaurants
(Section 9-18M-050)(A-B)). However, there continues to be uses permitted in the CSD which
do not fall into either the office, medical or retail uses, for example Higher education
facility, private or Government service. For office uses, the range is four to seven stalls per
1,000 usable square feet. Parking for restaurants has been provided at ten spaces per
1,000 feet of gross building area for fast food restaurants and eight per 1,000 feet of gross
building area for general restaurants (Section 9-18M-050(B)(1-2)). For the retail component,
the requirement has been updated to two and one half spaces per 1,000 feet of gross
building area.

Tree diamonds have been removed from the CSD and all parking areas will now have
landscaped islands. However, the conceptual plan does not accurately reflect this and staff
highly recommends that a new exhibit is provided.

                      Use                   CSD Range                   DCMC Requirements
                                                                       Call centers: 6 per 1,000
                                               4 to 7
                                                                              square feet
                     Office             per 1,000 of usable
                                                                        General: 4 spaces per
                                            square feet
                                                                         1,000 of square feet

Crosspoint CSD                                           Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments          7
                                        2½ per 1,000 square feet
                     Retail                                          2½ per 1,000 square feet
                                           from building area
                                          10 spaces per 1,000           10 spaces per 1,000
            Restaurant, fast food         square feet of gross          square feet of gross
                                              building area                building area
                                           8 spaces per 1,000
                                                                     8 spaces per 1,000 square
             Restaurant, general          square feet of gross
                                                                     feet of gross building area
                                              building area

        Staff Concerns
        Section 9-18M-050(A-B) – Page 5 of Exhibit E
        As with other approved CSD’s, parking for different uses is provided as a range of a
        certain number of stalls per square footage. This proposed CSD is similar and
        provides a range. Above is a comparison of the proposed parking ratios and the
        current parking requirements found in the DCMC.

        Staff is concerned with the language in the proposed CSD continues to state
        ‘useable square footage’ for the parking calculation. This could be a difficult to
        interpret in the future, especially as tenants move on and new tenants move in.
        Staff would recommend that the retail calculation is reduced and the CSD is clarified
        to base parking on the gross square footage, as required by the DCMC. There is
        also a concern by staff that some of the permitted uses in the CSD do not fit into
        either a retail or office parking use. For example, if an educational use was to be
        proposed, there would be no method for calculation of the parking needed. Staff
        would suggest that the permitted uses be adjusted or more parking categories are
        provided. An alternative would be to require all other uses to comply with the
        standard parking calculations found in DCMC Section 9-25-100 Table 9-25-1.

        Section 9-18M-050(D) – Page 5 of Exhibit E
        A provision has been provided for queuing or stacking lanes to comply with the
        DCMC. The section should be update to only state queuing lanes (how it’s defined in
        the DCMC) and the section citation is updated to Section 9-25-060(D).

        Section 9-18M-050(E) – Page 5 of Exhibit E
        This section contains a requirement for landscape islands in the parking areas, but
        does not specify their length. The proposed text says ‘as long as the length of either
        single or end to end parking spaces as applicable. Staff suggest this language is
        replaced with a set dimension and would recommend eighteen feet. In addition,
        tree diamonds, and not landscaping islands, are shown on the exhibits. The exhibits
        should be updated to reflect the removal of tree diamonds.




Crosspoint CSD                                          Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments           8
Lighting Standards
There are two lighting illumination standards proposed in the CSD. One is that parking lot
lighting has a maximum foot candle reading of four foot candles. The other standard is
that lighting along a shared property line with residential is limited to 0.2 foot candles and
must be shielded. Proposed lighting adjacent to residential or along a shared property line
has been updated to be limited to 15 feet in height and up to 20 feet for the remainder of
the project. Any other proposed lighting in the CSD is to meet the currently adopted
standards of the DCMC.

          Development Standard             Proposed CSD                  Current DCMC
                                                                          Regulations
                                                                    3.0 maximum allowed for
                                                                             office
          Maximum Foot Candles             4.0 foot candles
                                                                    6.0 maximum allowed for
                                                                             retail
           Maximum Adjacent to
                                           0.2 foot candles               0.2 foot candles
               Residential
                                         Maximum of 15 feet
                                        when located within 20
             Parking Lot Lighting
                                          feet of residential            Maximum 20 feet
                    Poles
                                        Maximum of 20 feet in
                                             parking lots

        Staff Concerns
        Section 9-18M-060(D) – Page 6 of Exhibit E
        This section should be removed from the CSD. Staff cannot be responsible for
        ensuring that all lighting is designed for energy conservation. This should be a
        decision by the owner when submitting projects for site plan review.

Signs
For the office component, the proposed CSD allows for a monument sign along the
western edge of the development adjacent to Highland Drive. This sign is intended to just
have the name of the development. The applicant is also proposing that each office or
medical building can have two monument signs or one monument sign with a tower that is
10 feet above ground and can have a sign area up to 25 square feet on the site (Section 9-
18M-070(B)(1)). Staff has concerns with the proposed square footage and suggests that the
prior standard of one per building is allowed with a maximum width of eight feet and
height of five feet and no tower signs allowed.

All of the proposed office buildings would be allowed to have signs of the individual tenants
on the three facades that are visible from Highland Drive. There would be no signs on the
south side of the buildings facing the residential area. All of these signs could include a
corporate logo and would now be limited to 600 square feet in size total for all facades

Crosspoint CSD                                         Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments          9
(Section 9-18M-070(B)(2)). However, staff is concerned with the large amount of sign area.
For example, the first business in could utilize all of the 600 square feet allocated.
Subsequent tenants would not be able to obtain signage creating a situation where staff
needs to explain to a tenant why they cannot have signage. Staff suggests a maximum size
overall and a limit for each tenant.

The applicant has now included wayfinding signs as a permitted sign. They would be
limited to five feet in height and up to fifty square feet in size. However, there is no limit to
the number of signs allowed. The current DCMC requirements allow for informational
signs, but they are limited to one per driveway entrance from a public or private right of
way and area limited to three feet in height and four square feet. When a driveway is
shared, it can be up to eight square feet in size, but only two square feet of sign copy or
wording. Staff would suggest that the wayfinding signs are called information signs and
limited to the restrictions in the DCMC.

The signs for the retail component are permitted to include corporate logs and will need to
be uniform in size for all tenants in the building. Signs are limited to two square feet in size
for each linear foot of the tenant’s space. The section referring to multi-tenant buildings
would allow for signs on two of the tenants elevations while standalone buildings could
have signs on up to three elevations has been removed. Staff would suggest this is added
back in.

A tower or pylon sign continues to be allowed for the retail component. The sign is
proposed to be up to 20 feet tall and up to 75 square feet in size. The proposed graphic in
the CSD indicates that this would be a multi-tenant sign.

                                                                           Current DCMC
          Development Standard               Proposed CSD
                                                                            Regulations
                                         Up to two per office or
                                         medical building along       One per street frontage
                                        Highland Drive. Up to 10       up to 24 square feet in
              Monument Signs
                                         feet above the ground       sign area and six feet high
                                         and up to 2.5 feet wide         and four feet wide.
                                             by 10 feet tall.
                                                                     One square foot of sign
                                                                      area per linear feet of
                                                                     building wall. If a sign is
                                         Signs on three facades,
                                                                    more than 200 feet from a
               Office Wall Signs        up to 600 square feet per
                                                                         right of way, the
                                                 façade.
                                                                       maximum allowed
                                                                     increases to 1½ square
                                                                                feet


Crosspoint CSD                                          Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments           10
                                                                       Informational Signs in DCMC
                                                                         Up to 3 feet tall and 4
                                         Up to 5 feet tall and 50      square feet of sign area.
              Wayfinding Signs           square feet in size. No         When part of a shared
                                                  limit.               driveway, up to 8 feet in
                                                                         size, but only 2 square
                                                                            feet of sign copy
                                                                       One square foot of sign
                                                                         area per linear feet of
                                                                       building wall. If a sign is
                                           Two square feet per
                                                                      more than 200 feet from a
               Retail Wall Signs          lineal feet of building
                                                                            right of way, the
                                                   face
                                                                           maximum allowed
                                                                        increases to 1½ square
                                                                                    feet
                                                                       Up to 20 feet tall and 75
                                          One for retail up to 20       square feet of signage.
                                         feet in height and up to      Allowed for multi-tenant
             Tower or Pylon Sign
                                        75 square feet of signage     developments with more
                                                   area               than 100,000 square feet
                                                                               of floor area

        Staff Concerns
        Section 9-18M-070(A) – Page 6 of Exhibit E
        The office signage section references an ‘office park’ which is not a defined term in
        the CSD. Staff would suggest this term is not used unless it is defined.

        Section 9-18M-030(B)(1) – Page 6Exhibit E
        Staff has concerns with the addition of two monuments signs or one monument
        sign with a tower sign for each of the office or medical buildings. In total this could
        equal six monument signs, or three monument signs and three tower signs. Staff
        recommends one monument sign per building with a maximum height of six feet
        and maximum width of four feet as previously identified.

        Section 9-18M-030(B)(2) – Page7 of Exhibit E
        Describing the building signs as being allowed ‘parallel and perpendicular’ to
        Highland Drive is not a clear way to explain the allowed areas. Staff would suggest
        cardinal directions such as north, east and west.

        Section 9-18M-030(B)(2) – Page 7 of Exhibit E
        The amount of signage has been increased from 100 square feet from the last
        submittal to up to 600 square feet in the current submittal. Staff believes that this is
        too much signage for the buildings. In addition, the sign area is not limited to a

Crosspoint CSD                                            Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments           11
        tenant so if the first tenant to occupy the building utilizes all 600 square feet of
        signs, staff will have to reject future applications for signage and could create
        conflict with future tenants. Staff suggests that a limit is placed for the buildings
        overall and a set allowance for each business.

        Section 9-18M-030(C)(2) – Page 7 Exhibit E
        Are the corporate logos intended to be included in the overall signage area or is it
        separate? Staff believes the proposed text needs to be clarified.

        Section 9-18M-030(C)(4)(d) – Page 7 of Exhibit E
        Staff cannot determine if each monument sign is architecturally compatible. That is
        a decision of the owner when submitting for sign permits.

Retaining Walls
The applicant has provided some standards for retaining walls as they will most likely be
needed for this development. The standards provided state they will need to be designed
in conformance with the retaining wall code found in DCMC Section 9-27-085. The text
states that all retaining walls should comply with the DCMC or in conformance with design
recommendations as outlined in the CSD. This section should be clarified to state that the
DCMC retaining wall regulations in effect at the time of the submittal of a retaining wall
should apply. No other standards should be permitted due to this property being located
within an identified geological hazard zone.

Cross Access with Seasons
The applicant has provided a very detailed section regarding cross access with the mixed
use project to the south. This development is commonly known as Seasons at Southpoint
Apartments. The applicant is proposing a one-way access between the proposed CSD and
the mixed use project. Staff finds this request concerning and has communicated that to
the applicant. Staff will accept a two-way access with a minimum width of twenty-six feet.
Staff believes, based on the advice of the Fire Marshal, that this two-way access is
necessary for public safety purposes and must be available for two-way traffic at all times.
The importance of the two-way access is especially critical with the applicant proposing a
hospital to be a permitted use in the CSD. In addition, cross access that is two-way is
typical with most cross access between commercial projects. The applicant has also
included language that is not a zoning or land use standard and is more like a private party
agreement. Staff does not support this language in the CSD and the applicant will need to
enter into a private agreement with the owner of Seasons at Southpoint. The first sentence
of Section 9-18M-090 needs to be modified to state two-way access and the remainder of
that paragraph removed. The last sentence or paragraph in the section needs to be
modified to state twenty-six feet wide.




Crosspoint CSD                                          Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments          12
Procedures/Application of City’s Vest Laws
The final two sections of the CSD are ones that should be provided in all CSD’s. The
procedures section does give the authority to review and approve site plans to the Zoning
Administrator, who can defer the application to the Planning Commission if needed.

Exhibits
Staff recommends that Exhibit E is removed from the CSD or it is modified to show two way
access. The one way access between the CSD and Seasons is not acceptable to staff.

Traffic Impacts
The applicant had a Traffic Impact Study done as part of this application. A traffic signal at
65 East and Highland Drive is identified in the study as a recommendation in order to
facilitate project traffic to an acceptable level of service. The traffic signal is identified in the
Master Transportation Plan as a future project. The obligation to install this signal ahead of
the city planned schedule and the financial partnership to address project impacts to the
intersection has not been established or identified in the traffic impact study. The
developer needs to design and construct this signal, as a component of the CSD, or the city
needs to commit to construct the signal as part of this project. The details of the
construction of the signal, whether by the developer or the city, will be worked out when
the first site plan for the site is submitted. The signal will need to be installed as part of
that application.

Zoning Map Amendment. The zoning map amendment request will change the property
from the CR zone to the newly created CSD-CP zone. The property would then be subject
to the regulations of the newly created commercial special district.

Criteria for Approval. A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in
making a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider
the following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
             policies of the city's general plan;
        b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
             of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone;
        d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
             property; and
        e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
             property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation

Crosspoint CSD                                            Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments            13
                facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

2.       Text Amendments:
         a.    Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
         b.    Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of
               the zoning ordinance;
         c.    Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
               request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
               ordinance;
         d.    The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
               part of this title or the general plan;
         e.    Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been
               evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or
               welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
         f.    The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
               professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the proposed zoning text amendment and zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
The Engineering and Public Works Divisions have completed their review of the proposed
zoning text amendment and zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Draper City Fire Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the
proposed zoning text amendment and zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Legal has completed their review of the proposed zoning
text amendment and zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




Crosspoint CSD                                          Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments          14
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation based on the findings listed below and the criteria
for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
             general plan;
        b.   The amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
             development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c.   The amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay
             zone;
        d.   The proposed amendment may not adversely affect adjacent property; and
        e.   Adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
             including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
             and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
             and wastewater and refuse collection are in place.

2.      Text Amendments:
        a.    The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
              general plan;
        b.    The amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
              ordinance;
        c.    The amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
              sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
        d.    The amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
              this title or the general plan;
        e.    The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
              determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
              represents an overall community benefit; and
        f.    The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
              practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
             city's general plan;
        b.   The amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
             development in the vicinity of the subject property;


Crosspoint CSD                                         Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments         15
        c.      The amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
                overlay zone;
        d.      The proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property; and
        e.      Adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
                including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
                and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
                and wastewater and refuse collection may not be in place.

2.      Text Amendments:
        a.    The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
              city's general plan;
        b.    The amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the
              zoning ordinance;
        c.    The amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
              there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
        d.    The amendment may create a conflict with any other section or part of this
              title or the general plan;
        e.    The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
              determined may be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
              represents an overall community benefit; and
        f.    The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
              professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



MODEL MOTION
Zoning Text Amendment
Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Crosspoint CSD zoning text amendment
request, as requested by Ralph Johnson of Utah Capital LLC, application TA-051-2018,
based on the findings listed in the staff report dated September 28, 2021.”

Sample Motion for a Modified Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Crosspoint CSD zoning text amendment
request, as requested by Ralph Johnson of Utah Capital LLC, application TA-051-2018, as
modified by the following:

1.      List any additional changes to proposed text…”

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation. “I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Crosspoint CSD zoning text amendment
request, as requested by Ralph Johnson of Utah Capital LLC, application TA-051-2018,
based on the findings listed in the staff report dated September 28, 2021.”


Crosspoint CSD                                           Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments           16
Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Crosspoint CSD zoning map amendment
request, as requested by Ralph Johnson of Utah Capital LLC, application GPMA-002-2018,
based on the findings listed in the staff report dated September 28, 2021.”

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation. “I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Crosspoint CSD zoning map amendment
request, as requested by Ralph Johnson of Utah Capital LLC, application GPMA-002-2018,
based on the findings listed in the staff report dated September 28, 2021.”




Crosspoint CSD                                     Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments      17
                          DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.




                        Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                                     Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky


  Brien Maxfield
                        DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -                                          DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                        Engineering,
                                                                                         Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City, CN=Jennifer


__________________________________                                                      __________________________________
                        email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US                                              Jastremsky
                        Date: 2021.10.01 10:04:22 -06'00'                                                      Date: 2021.09.29 16:45:26-06'00'




Draper City Public Works Department                                                     Draper City Planning Division


                                 Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                                                                                                          Digitally signed by Mike Barker

Don Buckley
                                 DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,


__________________________________
                                 O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal,
                                 CN=Don Buckley
                                 Date: 2021.10.04 14:14:33-06'00'
                                                                                         Mike Barker      Date: 2021.09.29 16:24:54
                                                                                        __________________________________
                                                                                                          -06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                                             Draper City Legal Counsel


                                 Digitally signed by Matthew T. Symes

 Matthew T. Symes DN: C=US, E=Matt.symes@draper.ut.us,

__________________________________
                  O=Draper City, CN=Matthew T. Symes
                                 Date: 2021.09.29 16:05:15-06'00'



Draper City Building Division




Crosspoint CSD                                                                              Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendments                                              18
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     A traffic signal at 65 East and Highland Drive is identified as a recommendation in
       order to facilitate project traffic to an acceptable level of service. The traffic signal is
       identified in the Master Transportation Plan as a future project. The obligation to
       install this signal ahead of the city planned schedule and the financial partnership to
       address project impacts to the intersection has not been established or identified in
       the traffic impact study. The developer needs to design and construct this signal, as
       a component of the CS D, or the city needs to commit to construct the signal as part
       of this project. The details of the construction of the signal, whether by the
       developer or the city, will be worked out when the first site plan for the site is
       submitted. The signal will need to be installed as part of that application.

2.     The conceptual site plan provides for a single one-way egress from the adjacent
       apartment development through the site. Staff has concerns with the limitation of
       this access and recommends the CSD not be approved with the cross access
       limitation included. Full cross access between the two commercial sites and/or
       adjacent commercial zoning should not be limited. The cross access language
       needs to be stronger to require full access between all commercial projects and
       commercial zoning.

Fire Division Review.
1.     The Draper City Fire Department has no issues with the proposed text amendment.
       However we would like to point out that the exhibit of the proposed site plan shows
       a cross access to what is now Draper South Point (aka Seasons). This is how Draper
       South Point was able to be approved by the fire department originally, because it
       gave them two points of access as required by fire code. The fire department would
       like assurances within the text amendment if possible that the second access will
       remain as previously approved in the original site plan. The access will need to
       meet the minimum widths and all requirements of the International Fire Code.
Legal Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
        EXHIBIT E
APPLICANT’S PROPOSED CSD
                            9-18
     ARTICLE M. CROSSPOINT COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT

9-18M-010 PURPOSE
9-18M-020 USES
9-18M-030 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
9-18M-040 LANDSCAPE STANDARDS
9-18M-050 PARKING DESIGN
9-18M-060 LIGHTING STANDARDS
9-18M-070 SIGNAGE
9-18M-080 RETAINING WALLS
9-18M-090 THROUGH ACCESS FOR RESIDENTS OF SEASONS AT SOUTHPOINT
            APARTMENTS
9-18M-100 PROCEDURES
9-18M-110 APPLICATION OF CITY’S VESTED LAWS
9-18M-120 EXHIBITS

9-18M-010: PURPOSE

The Crosspoint commercial special district (hereafter “CSD”) contains approximately 17
acres that is bordered by Highland Drive on the north, Traverse Ridge Drive on the
northeast and 65 East on the west. The size of the property allows for a master
planned office and commercial project. The Draper City general plan goals and
objectives are reflected in the overall Crosspoint CSD elements for the following land
uses, architectural standards, signage, site design, and landscape standards. The
commercial special district aims to broaden the commercial tax base of the city while
providing amenities to the city residents such as access to trails and open space.

9-18M-020: PERMITTED USES

Bank or financial institution
Business service
Convenience store
Daycare, general
Gasoline service station
Government service
Higher education facility, private
Higher education facility, public
Hotel
Hospital
Laundry or dry cleaning, limited
Laundry services
Media services
Medical service
Municipal use
Office, general


Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                         Page 1
Preschool, general
Printing and photocopying, limited
Personal care service
Recreation and entertainment, indoor
Restaurant, fast food (including drive thru)
Restaurant, general
Retail, general

9-18M-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

The development standards of the Crosspoint CSD will guide the design of the
buildings, landscaping, parking and signage located within the district boundaries. The
site plan provides for office, medical services (hereafter, “medical”), retail and general
commercial development in designated areas in accordance with the development
standards set forth in this article.

All buildings within the CSD shall comply with the following respective development
standards:

A.     Office, Hospital, and Medical:

       1.     Standards:

              (a)    Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite
                     metal panel, glass, stone, EIFS, brick, architectural concrete,
                     GFRC, or tile.

              (b)    More than two (2) primary materials shall be required on all building
                     facades.

              (c)    Buildings shall have a minimum of forty percent (40%) high
                     efficiency glass with the remainder in two (2) or more other primary
                     materials.

              (d)    Buildings shall be two, three or four stories. Two-story buildings
                     shall not exceed thirty (30) feet in height, three-story buildings shall
                     not exceed forty-five (45) feet in height, and four-story buildings
                     shall not exceed sixty (60) feet in height.

              (e)    All mechanical equipment, wherever located, shall be screened
                     from view either by an enclosure or parapet wall. Not exceeding
                     the height of the equipment. The maximum height of any screen
                     wall shall be ten (10) feet.

              (f)    Dumpsters shall be located in a six (6) foot high masonry enclosure
                     providing visual screening of the receptacle. Enclosures shall be



Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                                Page 2
                       constructed with one (1) or more materials compatible with the
                       main building on the lot or parcel for which it is servicing.

                (g)    The minimum setback from the Highland Drive property line for
                       four-story buildings shall be twenty (20) feet and ten (10) feet for
                       two or three-story buildings.

      2.        Office Amenities: The office park shall encourage interaction with the
                outdoor environment by providing the following:

                (a)    Conversation or gathering areas with seating shall be constructed
                       proximate to office buildings within green space or on patios.

                (b)    The CSD plan shall provide connectivity between office and
                       medical locations and within the retail areas with sidewalks and
                       roadways. Cross access agreements shall be required where there
                       is separate ownership of lots within the CSD.

B.    Retail:

      1.        Single-story retail buildings shall not exceed twenty-two (22) feet in height.
                All screening for rooftop mounted mechanical equipment shall be no more
                than ten feet (10’) taller than the building.

      2.        Building primary materials shall consist of glass, granite, metal, composite
                metal panel, stone, EIFS, brick, architectural concrete, GFRC or tile.

      3         At least two (2) primary materials shall be required on all building facades.

      4.        A multi-tenant building shall utilize a consistent palette of primary
                materials for the entire building. Stand-alone buildings may use primary
                materials and architecture pertaining to the business or corporate identity
                of such tenant.

      5.        All mechanical equipment, wherever located, shall be screened from view
                at ground level either by an enclosure or parapet wall not exceeding the
                height of the equipment. The maximum height of any screen wall shall be
                ten (10) feet.

      6.        Dumpsters shall be located in a six (6) foot high masonry enclosure
                providing visual screening of the receptacle. Enclosures shall be
                constructed with one or more materials compatible with the main building
                on the lot or parcel for which it is servicing.

      7.        The minimum setbacks of buildings along Highland Drive and Traverse
                Ridge Road shall be no less than ten (10) feet from the property line.



Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                                 Page 3
9-18M-040: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS

A.    Landscape Standards: A consistent palette of low water-use plants, tree types,
      plant materials, hardscape, retaining and ground covers will be incorporated
      throughout in relation to the architecture to create a strong and consistent sense
      of place and identity. The tree, plant palette and hardscape will be submitted in
      conjunction with specific site plan approval application. The landscape design
      shall comply with the following standards:

      1.    The landscape plan shall promote water conservation by the use of water
            wise landscaping principles and techniques.

      2.    Trees shall be a combination of deciduous and non-deciduous trees
            including shade and ornamental trees with a minimum initial caliper size of
            two (2”) inches and a minimum height of six feet (6’).

      3.    Hardscape shall be used on slopes and other locations in the landscape
            design and shall be combined with intermittent grasses and plantings to
            accent and complement green softscape areas and to reduce water use.
            Hardscape materials may consist of gravels, stone, rocks, pavers and
            concrete borders and patio areas in combination with trees, grass and
            plantings.

      4.    The minimum landscape percentage for office, medical and retail uses
            shall be twenty percent (20%) inclusive of all phases of Crosspoint CSD.
            A project or phase having more than the minimum percentage may have
            its excess percentage credited to the remaining projects or phases. A
            development project or phase having less than the minimum percentage is
            acceptable so long as the remaining project or projects make up any
            deficiency as a condition of approval.

      5.    The landscape plan shall be designed by a professional landscape
            architect.

B.    Buffering: A buffering separation shall be required between the zone for office
      and medical uses and all residential zones located to the south of the CSD. The
      buffer shall consist of the following:

      1.    A six foot (6’) high wall shall be constructed along the southern property
            line of the CSD adjacent to residentially zoned properties. The wall shall
            be constructed of masonry, precast concrete, lightweight precast fiber
            reinforced concrete.

      2.    All landscape buffer areas shall be landscaped with one (1) tree per four
            hundred (400) square feet of buffer area.



Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                           Page 4
      3.     All Landscape buffers between the CSD and adjacent residentially zoned
             property shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20’).

      4.     The buffer required for each office or medical building shall be completed
             by the date of the Certificate of Occupancy for that building and its parking
             area.

C.    All other elements of the landscape plan not described or defined above for
      materials, location and installation, shall comply with Chapter 9-23 of the DCMC.

9-18M-050: PARKING DESIGN

The CSD will be configured to include landscaping of parking areas and shall be
designed in accordance with the following standards:

      A.     Parking for office and medical use buildings shall be a minimum of four (4)
             stalls and a maximum of seven (7) stalls per one thousand (1,000) square
             feet of usable square footage. Usable square footage shall mean the
             amount of space for occupancy excluding electrical and mechanical areas
             not convertible to occupancy areas.

      B.     Parking for Restaurant: Fast Food and Restaurant: General uses shall be
             the following:

             (1)    Restaurant: Fast Food: Ten (10) spaces per one-thousand (1,000)
                    square feet of gross building area.

             (2)    Restaurant: General: Eight (8) spaces per one-thousand (1,000)
                    square feet of gross building area.

             (3)    General Retail: Two and one-half (2.5) spaces per one-thousand
                    (1,000) square feet gross building area.

      C.     Parking stalls shall be eighteen feet (18') in length and a minimum of nine
             feet (9') in width.

      D.     Queuing or stacking lanes for all drive-thru uses shall comply with City
             code 9-25-00(D).

      E.     Landscape islands shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') in width and a
             length as long as the length of either single or end to end parking spaces
             as applicable. The islands shall be placed at the end of each parking row.




Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                            Page 5
9-18M-060: LIGHTING STANDARDS

A.    Parking lot lighting in the CSD shall be illuminated according to the following
      standards:

      1.     The maximum average illumination shall be four (4) foot candles in
             general parking lot locations. The illumination after hours shall be limited
             to two (2) foot candles.

      2.     Light fixtures installed along the perimeter of the project shared by
             property that is residentially zoned shall:

             (1)    Not exceed fifteen feet (15’) in height along the shared boundary, and

             (2)    Utilize cutoff fixtures or house-side shields or lights limiting the
                    illumination to 0.2 foot candles along the property line.

B.    Parking lot lighting for office uses and retail uses shall not be taller than twenty
      feet (20’) and shall not be closer than within twenty feet (20’) of a property line
      zoned for residential use.

C.    Round black poles and fixtures shown in Exhibit D shall be uniform throughout
      the Crosspoint CSD.

D.    Lighting shall be designed for energy conservation.

E.    Other lighting not addressed in this CSD must comply with Chapter 9-20 of the
      Draper City Municipal Code.

9-18M-070: SIGNAGE

Signage design and location will be an important component of the CSD.

A.    Office Park

      1.     One (1) monument shall be allowed at the corner of 65 East and Highland
             Drive to identify the project name: Crosspoint Office Park.

B.    Signage for Office and Medical Buildings:

      1.     One (1) monument sign shall be allowed per office building identifying the
             address of each office building and its tenants. Each medical building
             may include either two (2) monument signs or one (1) monument sign with
             a tower on the site. The medical office tower sign shall be limited to ten
             feet (10’) above ground and shall not exceed two feet (2.5’) in height by




Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                                    Page 6
             ten feet (10’) in length. The base shall not exceed six inches (6”) in
             diameter.

      2.     Each office building and medical building may have building signage on
             each of the three (3) facades that are parallel and perpendicular to
             Highland Drive. Such signs may have individually illuminated letters and
             may include an illuminated corporate logo. Office and medical buildings
             signage shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet in size maximum
             per building façade.

      3.     Wayfinding signs will be allowed in the project. Height not to exceed five
             feet (5’). The wayfinding sign area will not exceed fifty (50) square feet.

C.    Signage for retail buildings:

      1.     The letters may be individually mounted or mounted on a mounting board
             or raceway to enable minimal penetrations of building surfaces and
             concealment of wiring for illumination of letters.

      2.     Signage may include corporate logos.

      3.     The combined total of all wall signs shall not exceed a maximum ratio of
             two (2) square feet of sign for each linear foot of building face length or the
             face length of the tenant’s space of a multi-tenant building.

      4.     Tower or Pylon Signs shall comply with these standards:

             (a)    One (1) shall be permitted in the retail component.

             (b)    The maximum height shall be twenty (20) feet.

             (c)    The maximum area shall be seventy five (75) square feet.

             (d)    Each monument sign shall have a uniform, architecturally
                    compatible design consistent with the CSD office buildings.

D.    The following types of signs are prohibited:

      1.     Flat faced box or cabinet signs.

      2.     Painted signs.

      3.     Neon signs

E.    Locations of signs shall be outside of public rights of way and, as outlined below,
      are intended to be in the approximate locations:



Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                               Page 7
      1.    All signs shall be located outside of public utility easements.

      2.    All signs shall be located outside of the clear view area defined in Section
            9-26-030

      3.    Locations on Highland Drive must meet adequate sight distance
            requirements.




               Conceptual Examples of Office Monument Signage:




Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                           Page 8
                                                                                          1' - 6"      Conceptual
                                                                                                    5' - 0"1' - 6"                            1' - 0" or Pylon Signage:
                                                                                                                                    6' - 0" Tower
                                                                                                                        1' - 0"of Retail
                                                                                                                   Example
                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"   1' - 6"        1' - 0"        6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Top
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0" 2' - 0"2' - 0"2' - 0"
                                                                  2' - 0"2' - 0"2' - 0"




                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"   1' - 6"        1' - 0"        6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Top
                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"   1' - 6"        1' - 0"        6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Top
                                                                                                                                  16th Federal Credit Union                                                                                                     12' - 0"
                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"   1' - 6"        1' - 0"       6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Top
                                                         0"-5'0"- 0"




                                                                                                                                       Emergency Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2' -- 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Top
                                                                                                                                       Happy Teeth, DDS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2' - 0"6'
                                                0"-5'0"- 2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                       Miracle Cleaners




                                                                                                                                                                                                         6' - 0" 6' - 0"6'
                                   5' - 0" 5' - 2'




                                                                                                                                        Close Haircuts
                                 - 0"




                                                                                                                                         Total Beauty
                              - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                       - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                6' 4'- 0"
                           5' 5'
5' - 0"5' - 0" 5' - 0"5' - 0"




                                                                                                                                        San Fran Pizza




                                                                                                                                                                     4' - 0"4' - 0" 4' - 0"4' - 0"
                                                                                                                                         Fast Burgers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0' - 0"




            9-18M-080: RETAINING WALLS

            When the improvements include retaining walls, the owner shall have the option of
            designing and constructing the retaining walls in compliance with Draper City Code
            DCMC 9-27-085 or in conformance with the design recommendations provided by: 1) a
            licensed geotechnical (and structural, if needed) engineer, 2) review verification by
            Draper City, and 3) on-site observation, testing and special inspection (if needed) during
            construction.


            9-18M-090: THROUGH ACCESS FOR RESIDENTS OF SEASONS AT SOUTHPOINT
            APARTMENTS

            The conceptual site plan depicts a one-way access and parking lot drives extending
            from the south side of the project area near the Seasons at Southpoint Apartments
            through the project parking areas to two locations on Highland Drive and to 65 East.
            The one-way access and the drives, are shown on the map attached as exhibit “E” and
            labeled the “Seasons Through Access.” Such access with multiple points of entry onto
            Highland Drive will be constructed incrementally as each building is completed in the
            CSD. As the access is installed, each completed portion will be available for the
            nonexclusive use of residents and guests of the Seasons at Southpoint Apartments, so
            long as during each year the management of the Crosspoint CSD receives, an annual
            reimbursement of the preceding year’s annual costs of maintenance, pavement repair
            or replacement and snow removal as follows: 1) 100% of the costs incurred in
            connection with one-way portion of the access (shown in blue on Exhibit E); and 2) 25%


            Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Page 9
of the costs incurred in connection with each of the other completed portions of the
“Seasons Through Access”. The width of the access for the #2 portions shall be 24 feet
and the length shall be the distance of the drives for each completed phase shown in
yellow representing shared drive access. On January 5th of each year, management of
the Crosspoint CSD project shall send to the manager of the Seasons at Southpoint
Apartments records of the above-described costs. Payment of the invoiced costs on
behalf of the Seasons at Southpoint Apartments shall be due 25 days later by January
30th of each year. In lieu of this arrangement, the respective managers of the
Crosspoint commercial special district and the Seasons at Southpoint Apartments may
enter into a license agreement with respect to the roadway designated as “Seasons
Through Access” on terms and conditions mutually acceptable to both parties.

The width of the one-way portion of the access shall be 24 feet wide including shoulders
and curbs.

9-18M-100: PROCEDURES

Approval of this CSD text and accompanying graphic exhibits including signage,
roadways, accesses and curb cuts shall constitute conceptual site plan approval in
accordance with City ordinances. Site plan approval for Permitted Uses of the CSD
may be approved administratively by the Zoning Administrator upon finding substantial
compliance with the terms of the CSD, or the Zoning Administrator may defer the review
of the application to the Planning Commission. Except provided otherwise herein, all
other permits shall be processed in accordance with the Draper City requirements,
ordinances and procedures. The images and renderings in this article are conceptual
and may be modified by the developer.


9-18M-110: APPLICATION OF CITY’S VESTED LAWS

Draper City ordinances, adopted codes, policies, regulations, standards and procedures
shall apply to the development of the Crosspoint Commercial Special District unless
specifically addressed by provisions of this article.


9-18M-120: EXHIBITS

A.    Conceptual Site Plan
B.    Office Preliminary Drawings
C.    Conceptual Retail Examples of Uses for Retail Pads and In-Line Shops
D.    Conceptual Examples of Lighting Complying With City Standards
E.    Seasons Through Access




Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                         Page 10
                                         EXHIBIT A
                                         SITE PLAN
               (Locations, Footprints and Building Configurations Are Conceptual)




Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                             Page 11
                                    EXHIBIT B
                          PRELIMINARY OFFICE DRAWINGS




Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                 Page 12
                             EXHIBIT C
        CONCEPTUAL RETAIL EXAMPLES OF USES FOR RETAIL PADS




Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                      Page 13
                           EXHIBIT D
 CONCEPTUAL EXAMPLES OF LIGHTING COMPLYING WITH CROSSPOINT CSD
                          STANDARDS




Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                  Page 14
                                 EXHIBIT E
                          SEASONS THROUGH ACCESS




                                              One-way Access; Blue

                                              Two-way Accesses: Yellow




Proposed Crosspoint CSD                                                  Page 15
                       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT’S RESPONSE TO DECEMBER 17, 2020 STAFF REPORT
               (RECEIVED OCTOBER 4, 2021)
                                                                             Received - M. Pickering
                                                                                    10/04/2021


                                     Memorandum

Date:        9-27-21
To:          Planning Commissioners
             David Dobbins
             Jennifer Jastremsky
             Mary Ann Pickering
From:        Utah Capital, LLC
Re:        Crosspoint CSD Application
_____________________________________________________________________

At the Planning Commission hearing held on December 17, 2020, planning staff
presented comments on perceived deficiencies in the Crosspoint CSD plan and
application. The following comments pertain to information that was actually included in
the CSD Plan reviewed 12-17-20 and to revisions added to the final CSD Plan and text.

Comment 1: Buffer/Trees Staff Mis-statement

Prior section 9-18M-030 A 1 in the 12/17/20 CSD text previously submitted to the
Planning Commission actually did state that a buffer would be created between the
offices and the residential zoned property on the south including a wall and landscaping.
It’s site plan showed landscaping and trees in the buffer area. The description of the
landscaping trees was included in former section 9-18M-040. It also described a wall
separating the CSD development from residential zoned property.

More recently, the materials for the wall have been updated to comply with the revision
enacted in April 2021. The number/density of trees is stated as presently required.

Comment 2: Landscape Percentage

The site plan previously submitted showed generous landscaping but did not state a
minimum landscaping area percentage. The CSD text now states 20% consistent with
the prior and current proposed site plans.

Comment 3: Other-Use Parking

Previously, staff requested specific parking standards for each permitted use other than
office and retail. Those standards are not separately stated because they are not likely
to be pursued. However, any use not included in the specifically stated uses would be
covered by 9-18M-110 PROCEDURES that states Draper City requirements would be
followed unless addressed by the Crosspoint CSD provisions. This language was
recommended by the Draper City Attorney.

Comment 4: Traffic Study Submitted/Response to Review/No Follow-up by Draper
At the 12-17-20 PC hearing, there was confusion on the update of the TIS plan. Since
that date, the traffic engineer for Crosspoint CSD has responded to all comments on the
TIS plan. It was submitted to Draper City engineering.

Comment 5: Corner Retail Curb Cuts

The transportation engineer for Crosspoint CSD produced a final TIS study that was
submitted to Draper City Engineering. It was followed by a supplemental memorandum
pertaining to the curb cuts in the commercial corner of Traverse Ridge Road and
Highland Drive.

The memorandum explained that the commercial corner of the Crosspoint CSD was re-
configured to allow the curb cut on Highland Drive to be moved approximately double
the distance from the corner. The memo also reviewed and compared the functioning
of curb cuts on existing corners of the intersection of Highland Drive and Traverse
Ridge Road. The memorandum described the reasonable functioning of the existing
curb cuts that are at least 100 feet closer to the corner on Highland Drive than planned
for Crosspoint CSD. The memo also includes a requirement that the curb cuts would be
configured so that they would only function for a right in for ingress and a right out for
egress. The spacing of the curb cut on corner of Highland Drive exceeds the minimum
standard of 200 feet found in the table at 9-25-080 C2.

Comment 6: Traffic Signal on 65 East

The method of payment for the traffic signal at 65 East Highland Drive has been agreed
upon with the City in the form of a commitment for funding at the time first office building
is constructed.

Comment 7: Building Height

9-18M-030A1(d) states the height limitation of the office buildings at 60 feet for four
stories, 45 feet for three stories and 30 feet for two stories. These height limitations are
less than the existing heights of the respective office buildings constructed in the
contiguous office park called the Pointe. That zone is CR which is the same zone as
presently exists for Crosspoint.




An enclosure for mechanical equipment is not considered part of the architectural height
and the height limitations do not apply to “properly screened mechanical appurtenances
located on the roof of a building” as per Draper City Code 9-27-120. It applies similarly
to the buildings in the Pointe that have mechanical screening.
Among citizen comments, it was urged that the Crosspoint offices should be no taller
than those at the Pointe. That was an endorsement for height of the Crosspoint
buildings that are to be slightly less than the office buildings at The Pointe.

There is a further reality that is not apparent in simply talking about the number of
stories proposed. It turns out that there are elevation differences at Crosspoint
compared to Chandler Point. A person at the higher elevations of Chandler Point will
effectively see a shorter building because it is constructed at a lower elevation in
Crosspoint which is downhill.

Most of all of the elevations in Chandler Point are 15 feet or more higher than the
ground level of building 1 in Crosspoint. So, looking straight toward a four-story
building, a person would see 45 feet from the elevation of Chandler Point that is 15 feet
higher. The effect is seeing a 45 foot tall building from the Chandler Point elevation.




The elevations in multiple locations in Chandler Point actually rise to 50 feet or more
higher than the ground level of building 1. A person at that higher elevation looking
straight toward the building would have an eye-level near the top that building with less
building structure to see above that level.

                  Chandler Point Elevations From Google Earth Data
Photographs of the contiguous buildings in The Pointe are also submitted to illustrate
the effect of constructing buildings of similar heights but at a lower elevation. The
pictures show an appearance of shorter looking buildings.




These images show both a three story building and a four story building which appear
shorter due to the construction at a lower actual elevation compared to the higher street
levels in Chandler Point.


Comment 8: Access Through Crosspoint

A concrete median now prohibits residents egressing onto Traverse Ridge Road and
making a left-hand turn toward the intersection. Tenants are required to make a right
hand turn and do a U-turn at the light up the hill.

Tenants of the Seasons apartments have had this inconvenience with their egress from
the apartment development without regard to any expected development of Crosspoint
CSD. However, they have no difficulty with ingress to their apartments from Traverse
Ridge Road. The Crosspoint project neither creates nor exacerbates access
inconveniences associated with the apartments.

Nevertheless, the ownership of Crosspoint has been and is willing to modify its project
in a way that addresses the apartment’s egress inconvenience, but in a way that
minimizes disruption of traffic flow within the Crosspoint project. That egress to
Highland Drive is depicted on the Crosspoint site plan as an option not required by
Draper code.

The planning staff has expressed an opinion that Draper City Code section 9-25-080 E
requires cross access through Crosspoint property. However, that is an erroneous
reading of that code for several reasons.

      First, 9-25-080 E 1 states that it applies to “nonresidential developments” which
      signifies the type of use of the properties. The actual designation of zoning is not
      stated. The predominant use of the Seasons is residential multi-family. Stating it
      as a double negative it is not a “nonresidential development”. To the contrary the
      Seasons has been constructed predominantly as an apartment development with
      only minimal and uncertain retail uses.

      Second, 9-25-080 E 1 imposes the requirement that a connection is required only
      if the developments are adjacent which means not separated. But the Seasons
      and Crosspoint properties are not adjacent because they are separated by the
      road, Draper Point Way.

      Third, 9-25-080 E 1 b requires that “Nonresidential developments on individual
      parcels which have access onto a street of a major collector or arterial class shall
      provide cross access for parking areas to neighboring sites of a similar
      circumstance;” This condition cannot be met because the Seasons and
      Crosspoint CSD do not share a “similar circumstance”. The Seasons has access
      to Traverse Ridge Road but does not front on or have access to Highland Drive
      as is required by the code language.

Despite inapplicability of section 9-25-080E, the ownership of the Crosspoint property is
willing to allow a one-way egress from the apartments to reach Highland Drive through
the owner’s property. The justification for the egress-only plan is clear:

1) The use of the one-way exit from the apartments solves the apartments’ egress
   inconvenience. It will enable apartment tenants to reach Highland Drive and make
   left or right turns at multiple locations. Two-way access would conflict with office
   employees exiting to go home. It would also create an inappropriate use of the
   Crosspoint parking lot to circumvent the intersection at Highland and Traverse Ridge
   Road.

2) Two-way access is unnecessary. When apartment dwellers are headed home to the
   apartments from the west, they can continue on Highland Drive as they presently do.
   They can make a right turn at the traffic signal at Highland and Traverse and make a
   second right turn into the apartments as they currently do. Any apartment tenants
   coming from the east on Highland Drive can make a left turn with the traffic signal
   and then a right turn into the apartments. Both actions are unchanged from the
   present and allow apartment tenants to return to their apartments. Convenient
   ingress to the apartments is already available without any further imposition and
   interference with the Crosspoint CSD development. Indeed, the existing access to
   the apartments is more convenient than access through owner’s office parking,
   which would require slower vehicle speeds and congestion with departing office
   workers.

3) A one-way road can always be used in an emergency in addition to existing dual
   accesses to the Seasons property.

This plan has been previously reviewed with the City Manager and all members of the
City Council without objection.
Comment 9: Section 9-18M-080 was prepared by a large, highly experienced, geotechnical
firm. It describes methods for retaining walls that it has typically utilized in addition to the
method described in Draper City Code. Nevertheless, the language leaves the final approval
with Draper City’s engineering staff.

Comment 10: The Egress Plan discussed with the City Manager and City Attorney contains
agreed upon concepts. 9-18M-090 describes the operative plan for the Seasons’ egress
including a method of sharing maintenance expenses for use of the egress.

Comment 11: The Procedures section of 9-18M-100 is compliant with a revision by the City
Attorney.
