Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: November 9, 2021
Re: Pye Plat Amendment –Public Access Easement Modification Comments: The applicant is requesting to modify the way a public access easement on his property is being utilized. As the easement is a public easement in favor of Draper City, the City Council has the authority to authorize a modification in how the easement improvements are laid out. If approved, the applicant will then request a subdivision plat with the Planning Commission to amend the plat outlining the changes.
The Elggren Subdivision was recorded on March 9, 2006. Lot 2 of the subdivision contains a 20-foot wide “access right-of-way easement dedicated to Draper City” along its southern property line. The notes on the plat call this easement an emergency access easement that shall be maintained by Lot 2. The plat also has a 20-foot wide sanitary sewer and drainage easement along the same area. This easement is improved with an approximately 10-foot wide paved pedestrian path way that doubles as a paved emergency access for public safety personnel in the event of an emergency from the adjacent Masters Subdivision. The intent of the easement is to provide a secondary emergency access to the Masters Subdivision to a public street. The Masters Subdivision was recorded in 1996 with a secondary gated access to 1840 East. However, at this location, 1840 East is a private street. The access easement on Lot 2 Elggren Subdivision allows for an emergency access from the Masters to the public 12200 South Street. The easement also serves as a pedestrian access between the neighborhoods.
The applicant is proposing to modify how the easement is utilized. The applicant’s intent is to be able to use the easement as a driveway. It is unclear whether the applicant would access a separate private driveway from the access easement or if he would drive through the access easement to 1840 East, and then access his separate private driveway from there. They have secured the rights from the adjacent private property owner of 1840 East to access their garage from 1840 East, but have not obtain the rights to access other private parts of 1840 East. The specific modifications to the easement are listed below. A site plan showing the proposed configuration is attached to this memo.
- 8’ asphalt paved public walkway
- 2’ separator of flat landscaping (grass) to delineate separation/utilization
- 10’ asphalt paved driveway
- entire 20’ to remain clear for emergency right of way
City Staff has reviewed the application and placed below review comments that pertain to the modification of the easement’s current configuration. Of primary concern from staff is how allowing duel use of the access easement may affect its ability to be utilized in an emergency. If it were to also serve as a private driveway how will the City ensure it is left clear at all times, and that future owners also abide by the use restrictions being proposed. On a positive side, the applicant is proposing to widen the paved portion of the easement allowing for greater drivable width for emergency vehicles. Additional comments can be found attached to this memo.
1.   This plat has a required fire access easement that was put into place to allow a second access for phase 2 of the Masters subdivision. The Masters subdivision has more than 30 homes and a second access was required. To meet this requirement an engineered walkway was installed with removable bollards for fire access. Where this easement sits, it appears that the applicant is requesting it to be used as part or most of the driveway to the home. There is a gate that is located across Indian Wells Lane where it connects to 1840 East it appears to be a full swing gate however the gate would have to be cut in order for fire to be able to open it.  Also part of 1840 East is a private lane and we have no record as whether traffic would be allowed to access 1840 East.  Because of this, the only access is to connect to 12200 South through the recorded fire access easement.  The code requires fire access be kept clear at all times how will this be maintained? There are currently two removable bollards at each end of the easement (although they may be rusted in place) there will still need to be two removable bollards in place. Another concern is that there is not a way to guarantee that this applicant will be the homeowner in the future how do we ensure the access will be maintained with possible future owners?
2.   Provide a note that the 20-foot access easement shall remain clear at all times. No vehicles will be allowed to be parked on the easement.
3.   Does the applicant propose any signs to direct pedestrians onto eight-foot sidewalk? What stops someone in a golf cart or UTV from using driveway portion of easement?  Or is that something the applicant finds acceptable?
4.   See provided utility map from the subdivision construction.  It does not show the existing six-inch pressurized irrigation pipeline located near the original 40-foot setback line.  WaterPro has additional information on this P.I. pipeline.  The following are utilities located within the subject area:
·   48-inch pipeline has been confirmed to be located north of existing sidewalk.
·   eight-inch sanitary sewer pipeline confirmed in existing sidewalk alignment.
·   18-inch storm drain pipeline and structures confirmed in existing sidewalk alignment.
·   eight-inch waterline confirmed adjacent to lot within area between existing sidewalk and lot boundary.
5.   The proposed plans provide for an 8-foot wide pedestrian walkway in conformance to DCMC Section 17-5-030(F).
6. The proposed plans provide a 20-foot wide paved emergency access.
The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1.   Adequate conditions can be placed on the approval to ensure the public access easement would remain clear and maintained in the future.
2.   The modification allows for an 8-foot pedestrian trail that maintains the public neighborhood access across the easement.
3.   The modification will widen the paved area within the easement allowing for a 20-foot wide paved area to be used by public safety departments.
For Denial:
1.   There is not a public benefit to allowing modification of the public access easement.
2.    Allowing duel use of the access easement could create an enforcement concern in the future as the easement will have to remain clear at all times.
3.   There is concern that as property owners change in the future, the access easement may not be left clear as required or maintained properly.
4.   The amount of utilities located within the access easement would make maintenance more difficult with dual use as a driveway. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Concept Plan 11/4/2021 Cover Memo Staff Redlines 11/4/2021 Cover Memo