MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, AUGUST 3,
2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (by
                    phone), Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:            Councilmember T. Lowery

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott
                    Cooley, City Engineer; Kellie Challburg, Chief of Staff; Hazel
                    Dunsmore, Human Resource Director; John Eining, Police Chief;
                    Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
                    Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie,
                    Finance Director
______________________________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0   Discussion: Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (IADU) Options - Jennifer
      Jastremsky and Todd Draper

1.1   Jen Jastremsky, planner, opened this discussion by presenting a tentative
      timeline of when certain requirements for IADUs could potentially take effect.
      The staff was still investigating questions concerning the employment impact,
      as well as the particularities of South Mountain and SunCrest. Ms. Jastremsky
      presented a draft map depicting the areas of Draper where IADUs would
      tentatively be allowed.
1.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked what the percentage of the area is including
      the yellow area. Ms. Jastremsky stated it was 12%. Councilmember F. Lowry
      clarified that there was room to add more areas to the map.
1.3   Councilmember Roberts asked how Ms. Jastremsky would suggest getting to
      the threshold. Ms. Jastremsky suggested looking at specific neighborhoods
      and include parameters such as narrow roads to bolster the map.
      Councilmember Roberts asked if there was a reason not to reach the 25%
      threshold the State set. Ms. Jastremsky stated she didn’t have an answer to
      that question.
1.4   Councilmember F. Lowry had a question about why a specific area was chosen
      to be on the map. Ms. Jastremsky believed it to be due to street width.




Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – August 3, 2021
1.5   Mayor Walker stated he liked the map idea and felt it met the legislature’s
      criteria. He felt that coming up with criteria was more enforceable.
1.6   David Dobbins, City Manager, stated the council would need to decide what
      the public process was going to be for adopting the map. He felt that a Public
      Hearing would need to be held so residents could weigh in on the matter.
1.7   Councilmember F. Lowry stated he agreed with the Mayor that the city needed
      to be consistent with the criteria that is set for the city.
2.0   Council/Manager Reports

**    Due to technical difficulties, portions of this discussion were inaudible on the
      recording.

2.1   Councilmember Roberts mentioned a problem with weeds up in the SunCrest
      Park neighborhood. Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director, said he
      would alert staff to the matter.

2.2   Councilmember F. Lowry thanked Scott Cooley, Engineering/Public Works
      Director for installing a bike lane on 1300 East. He also asked about a pothole.
      Mr. Cooley asked several clarifying questions about the pothole in question,
      to which Councilmember F. Lowry said he would send a photo to Mr. Cooley.

2.3   Councilmember F. Lowry announced that the Moto Challenge was scheduled
      for that upcoming Saturday. He expressed appreciation to the Parks and
      Recreation Department for its assistance in organizing the event.
      Councilmember F. Lowry stated that the Special Events Arena Committee was
      fully staffed, and they had held several discussions regarding food trucks. He
      explained that piggybacking off of established events could help get the ball
      rolling in having food trucks set up on a more regular basis.

      Mayor Walker asked about food trucks at the Crafts event. Kellie Challburg,
      Chief of Staff, stated that a food truck area was planned from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
      for September 14th.       Ms. Challburg mentioned that advertising may get
      confusing in promoting events and food trucks simultaneously.
      Councilmember F. Lowry said he would look for another night at the Arena.
      Councilmember Vawdrey suggested hanging a banner in the area to help
      direct traffic.

2.4   Fire Chief Clint Smith stated that fire crews returned home the previous day.
      He stated that the department had since been informed of another new fire

                                                                          Page 2 of 5
      taking place in Montana. He anticipated another request for crews in the near
      future.

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

1.1   Mayor Walker called the meeting to order and noted all Councilmembers were
      present.

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   Chief Clint Smith offered a prayer. The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Rhett
      Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director.

3.0   Public Comments

3.1   There were no public comments.

4.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of July 20, 2021, City Council Meeting Minutes
      b. Approval to surplus city-owned vehicles
      c. Approval of Agreement #21-159, Assessment in Lieu for Ruby Ballard
         Subdivision at 13062 South Fort Street.
      d. Approval of Agreement #21-160, Assessment in Lieu for 700 East Medical
         Building Site at 12188 South 700 East.
      e. Approval of Agreement #21-161, Assessment in Lieu for Larkin residence
         at 1482 Pioneer Road.
      f. Approval of Agreement #21-162, Assessment in Lieu for Montague
         residence at 12626 South 1700 East.
      g. Approval of Agreement #21-163, Assessment in Lieu for Fox Landing Phase
         3 at 11710 South 700 West

4.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                the   Consent   Items.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.



                                                                        Page 3 of 5
5.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1498, A request by Draper City for a Text
      Amendment to Titles 9 and 17 of Draper City Municipal Code in order to
      amend general regulations pertaining to definitions, permitted use reviews,
      conditional use permits, site plan reviews, landscaping, addressing, appeals,
      land use buffers, parking, lot and yard requirements, swimming pools,
      development standards, and other typographical and de minimis corrections.

5.1   Todd Draper presented two definitions that would be added to the ordinance
      if approved:

      9-3-040
      Adversely Affected Party: A person other than a land use applicant who:
      A. Owns real property adjoining the property that is the subject of a land use
         application or land use decision, or
      B. Will suffer a damage different in kind than, or an injury distinct from, that
         of the general community as a result of the land use decision.

      Primary Entrance: The entry point to a main building designed to receive the
      public. For commercial, industrial, and multifamily residential buildings the
      primary entrance is usually located on the street bearing the main building’s
      formal postal address. For single family and two-family dwelling units the
      primary entrance is located on the street bearing the dwelling’s postal address.

      Mr. Draper then presented several miscellaneous redlined items as proposed
      ordinance amendments. Changes pertained to setbacks, parking, the appeals
      process, drainage, protocols for expired site plans, development standards in
      residential zones, various site design criteria, and swimming pools.

      Ms. Jastremsky explained the City’s standards for its minimum/maximum
      parking code requirements. Mr. Draper noted that the Planning Commission
      unanimously forwarded a recommendation of approval for the changes as
      outlined.

5.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward, so Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

5.3   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                    Ordinance    #1498.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.



                                                                          Page 4 of 5
5.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Public Hearing: Resolution #21-42, amending the current Fiscal Year 2022
      Budget.

6.1   Bob Wylie, Finance Director, presented six items to amend from the FY 2022
      Budget. Those items were 1) Traverse Ridge Mainline Vault Repair; 2) Diversity
      and Inclusion Advisory Committee; 3) CivicPlus; 4) Fire Department Logistics
      Building; 5) Parks and Recreation; 6) Highland Drive 1300 East Signal.

6.2   Councilmember Roberts asked about the funding allocation for the Traverse
      Ridge Mainline Valve Repair. Mr. Dobbins stated that staff determined that the
      primary issues were in the valves and not the line. The valves were beyond
      repair and needed to be completely replaced.

6.3   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if one more item could be added to the list of
      budget amendments: to set aside $50,000 from the General Fund balance for
      the City’s beautification projects. He stated these projects would be identified
      later. Mr. Wylie stated that the City often has funding available from closed
      projects; he requested one month to identify beautification funds.

6.4   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.        No one came forward, Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

6.5   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                    Resolution    #21-42.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

6.6   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Adjournment

7.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.

7.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.

                                                                          Page 5 of 5
