Draft minutes 9/23/2021
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2021 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:       Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker, Commissioners Gary Ogden and Lisa
                     Fowler, John Van Hoff and Alternate Commissioners DeLaina Tonks and
                     Susan Nixon

ABSENT:              Chairperson Andrew Adams, Commissioner Mary Squire and Alternate
                     Commissioner Tab Bingham


STAFF PRESENT:       Jennifer Jastremsky, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane,
                     Amie Salazar, Maryann Pickering and Todd Draper

6:30 PM Business Meeting:


1.     Public Meeting: Concord Lane Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map
       Amendment and Development Agreement (Legislative Action)

On the request of Wendy Vawdrey and Tanya Henderson for a Zoning Map Amendment from
RA1 to RM1 and a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Low/Medium Density to
Residential Medium/High Density, and a Development Agreement for 6,000 square foot single
family lots. The property is located at 13666 South 300 East. Applications TEXTMAP-0076-2021,
TEXTMAP-0077-2021, DA-0078-2021. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky at 801.576.6328 or
jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, presented an aerial map, land use map, and zoning map.
She explained the difference between RA1 and RM1 zoning. She explained the purpose behind a
development agreement. She presented the concept site plan as well as concept elevations and
adjacent neighborhoods. She stated that the neighboring areas are also RM1 zones and also have
a development agreement.

Vice Chairman Hawker asked if they had done 20 feet driveways. Ms. Jastremsky answered in the
affirmative.

Ms. Jastremsky pointed out a few typos in the development agreement and recommends they be
fixed in the development agreement prior to council.

Commissioner Fowler asked about the development agreement and the neighborhoods that differ
from the proposed agreement.

Ms. Jastremsky elaborated on the differences between the neighborhoods and the proposed
agreement.

Commissioner Nixon asked about lot #9 and specifically the drainage easement.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 23, 2021
Page 2

Ms. Jastremsky stated that the house would face out. She stated that, regardless of which way the
house faces, there will still be setbacks.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked if there would be sidewalks.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that there would be sidewalks installed along 300 East. She stated that the
concept only shows their property. She stated that, for private lanes, sidewalks are necessary for
more than 10 lots.

Commissioner Tonks asked about whether the department reviews have been addressed.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that most of the reviews are going to be addressed with the applicant.

Commissioner Nixon asked about the fire division review.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that the fire marshal looked at the turn around being 20 feet wide.

Mike Barker clarified where the road narrows.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that they could include changes in the recommendation.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked about the ditch.

Brien Maxfield noted that they need to follow up. He stated that the alternative is to hold the storm
water on site.

Vice Chairman Hawker invited the applicant up.

Ronald Smith, applicant, elaborated on the history of the lot. He stated that the previous owners
cut the lots up to have room for a little house; however, by putting the lots together, they would be
able to better utilize the area. He stated that the city council approved there being no commercial
properties above a certain street. He stated that there has been some concern about the drainage on
the lot. He stated that there is a swell at the back of each lot. He introduced Wendy Vawdrey and
explained her role in the project.

Wendy Vawdrey, owner, illustrated the history of the lot she’s owned for over 15 years. She stated
that they can’t use their properties for the initial purposes. She stated that there has been some
confusion about residential and commercial areas. She stated that she came up with this plan to
solve the problems that were beginning to arise in the area. She stated that the lots ended up being
very similar to other areas. She stated that there is enough room for a buffer zone so the houses are
not right next to each other. She stated that there are a lot of options for the lots. She stated that
the neighborhoods are situated so that the backyards are next to each other and there is some quiet
space. She stated that she believes these houses to be very nice and similar to Brooks Lane.




                                                  2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 23, 2021
Page 3
Commissioner Fowler asked if Ms. Vawdrey had considered connecting to Brooks Lane instead
of having a turn around.

Ms. Vawdrey stated that they had considered that; however, the connecting lane is too narrow to
supply another subdivision.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened public hearing.

Bob Clark stated that he lives down the street. He stated that he understood the zoning for the area.
He stated that the development agreement sounds like it would allow them to put a bunch of homes
on the property and sell them, increasing the traffic and decreasing safety. He stated that he’s
frustrated because most people move to Draper to live on half-acre or third-acre lots. He stated
that it’s too narrow for firefighters to access. He stated that he wishes they would let it be what it
was designed to be.

Teryl Clark stated that they have a large driveway so they can turn around and get out safely;
however, not everyone is so lucky. She stated that this makes no sense. She stated that there could
be some water problems and legal problems. She suggested that they take a look at the area. She
stated that this will affect many of the neighbors.

Eric Maxfield stated that, when he moved here, the smallest lot he could buy was a half-acre. He
stated that he’s very concerned about setting a precedence that will make the traffic worse and put
the children in danger. He suggested keeping the zoning the way it is.

Vice Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

Mr. Smith, applicant, stated that, as he recalls, they have the fire chief’s approval.

Ms. Vawdrey addressed the concerns with the proposal. She stated that the property that they’re
proposing doesn’t touch the properties brought up. She stated that Brooks Lane acts as a buffer
between the properties and her property. She stated that she holds no animosity towards any of her
neighbors. She stated that this is a neighborhood in flux. She stated that the east side wants the
property to look like theirs, but the west side would try to make it impossible. She stated that they
are trying their best to figure out a way to make the most out of the property. She stated that they
started something good. She stated that she doesn’t think the additional lots will make a noticeable
difference in traffic.

Ms. Jastremsky clarified concerns about the Lloyd property.

Vice Chairman Hawker stated that they handle the zoning but allow Staff to handle drainage and
such as that is their expertise.

Commissioner Fowler asked about a buffer between residential and commercial.

Commissioner Van Hoff stated that he would like to see a development blend. He stated that this
development falls in line, but he wishes it would blend better.


                                                  3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 23, 2021
Page 4

Commissioner Fowler stated that she likes the buffer and the density. She asked about the traffic
issue.

Vice Chairman Hawker stated that there’s traffic everywhere, and it’s getting worse as the years
go by.

Commissioner Nixon asked about the engineering. She stated that there are requirements for the
drainage.

Ron Smith, applicant, stated that they would like to work with the project. He stated that they have
no problems with engineering.

Vice Chairman Hawker asked Ms. Jastremsky to define a development agreement for the benefit
of the public.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that a development agreement is voluntary for the city to enter into. She
stated that it’s considered a legislative action.

Vice Chairman Hawker stated that there are certain parcels that don’t fit any of the zones, so a
development agreement locks the applicant into certain requirements.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to send a positive recommendation to the city
council for the zoning map amendment as requested by Wendy Vawdrey and Tanya
Henderson for Concord Lane, application TEXTMAP-0076-2021 based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated September 13, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Van Hoff, Tonks and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Tonks motioned to send a positive recommendation to the city
council for the land use map amendment as requested by Wendy Vawdrey and Tanya
Henderson for Concord Lane, application TEXTMAP-0077-2021 based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated September 13, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Van Hoff, Tonks and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to send a positive recommendation to the city
council for the development agreement as requested by Wendy Vawdrey and Tanya
Henderson for Concord Lane, application DA-0078-2021 based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the staff report dated September 13, 2021, and as modified that the


                                                 4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 23, 2021
Page 5
typing errors in the development agreement be corrected as well as that staff verifies road
width requirements.

Second: Commissioner Nixon.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Van Hoff, Tonks and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

2.     Public Hearing: Jensen Concrete Fence Conditional Use Permit (Administrative
       Action)

On the request of Courtney Jensen for a Conditional Use Permit for the installation of an 8-foot
tall precast concrete fence, on approximately 0.46 acres located at approximately 12968 S.
Fayview Ln. Application USE-0120-2021, Staff contact: Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335,
todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, Planner, presented an aerial map of the property, land use designation, and RA2
zoning map. He stated that the applicant would like to install an 8-foot fence to match an existing
8-foot fence along the western property line. He presented an elevation drawing and site photos.
He stated that the land owner to the north had submitted a public comment.

Commissioner Fowler asked Todd to clarify the neighbors’ concerns and what the City can require
with this application.

Mr. Draper stated that the project would have to take place on the owner’s property.

Vice Chairman Hawker asked about debris.

Mr. Draper clarified that the work would have to be done on the owner’s property with minimal
or no disturbance to the neighboring property.

Commissioner Ogden asked about a slope in the property.

Mr. Draper stated that the applicant may be able to answer that better.

Courtney Jensen, applicant, stated that he just wants to match the fence to what the neighbors have.
He stated that they do want to match the height and they are perfectly okay with keeping it on their
property.

Commissioner Fowler asked whether Mr. Jensen has spoken to his neighbors.

Mr. Jensen stated that he had.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked about the height of the fence with the natural ground.

Mr. Jensen elaborated on the plans for the fence.


                                                 5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 23, 2021
Page 6

Commissioner Nixon asked about the ground sloping and the fence panels sloping with it.

Mr. Jensen stated that this would be the case.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing.

Eric Maxfield stated that he is the neighbor to the west. He stated that the house foundation is 11
inches above his 8-foot fence. He stated that the building - is a tower looking into his property and
invading his privacy. He stated that he is very happy with them having an 8-foot fence because it
gives him more privacy. He stated that the footings for the existing fence line are on his property.
He stated there needs to be an agreement between all of the neighbors. He stated that he owns more
of the property than is shown because the property lines shown are incorrect. He stated that he
owns three more feet of the property east of his fence, and if they build on the property lines shown,
then they are encroaching on his property by four feet.

Vice Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Fowler asked about Mr. Maxfield’s lot.

Mike Barker clarified that the present issue is regarding the height of the fence, not whether or not
a fence can be built.

Commissioner Nixon asked about specifications in the code for height.

Todd Draper responded that the fence height is measured from the higher side of the fence.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the Concrete Fence Conditional Use
Permit as requested by Courtney Jensen Application USE-0120-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated September 9, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Tonks, Van Hoff, Fowler, Ogden and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: Cinnamon Ridge Lots 2 & 3 Plat Amendment (Administrative
       Action)

A request by Alex Cross, representing the property owners, for approval of a plat amendment to
adjust the common property line between Lots 2 and 3. The properties are located at approximately
1106 and 1124 E. LeAmbra Lane in the A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre minimum) Zone and South
Mountain Agreement area. Application: SUBD-110-2021: Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at
801-576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.




                                                  6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 23, 2021
Page 7
Maryann Pickering, Planner, presented an aerial map, land use map, and zoning map. She
explained the history behind the South Mountain development agreement and how it affects the
property in question. She stated that a portion of the lot line would move. She presented the original
plat as well as the proposed plat and explained the differences between them.

Vice Chairman Hawker asked whether the lots are being built on currently.

Ms. Pickering confirmed as much. She stated that the purpose is to adjust the corner for the house.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked about utilities.

Brien Maxfield stated that the utility companies have been consulted and will have to sign off.

Vice Chairman Hawker invited the applicant up.

Broch Lassig, homeowner, stated that the utilities are on the eastern side of the lot so that will not
affect it. He stated that the retaining walls will be pulled back about two feet, and that’s the purpose
for this.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing.

Vice Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to approve the plat amendment as requested by
Alex Cross for the Cinnamon Ridge lots 2 and 3 for the plat amendment application SUBD-
110-2021 based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated
September 14, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Tonks.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Tonks, Van Hoff, Fowler, Ogden and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: Day Dairy Medical Use Text Amendment (Legislative Action)

On the request of Adam Lankford, representing Wasatch Residential Group for a Text Amendment
to add Medical Services as a permitted use in the CSD-DD (Day Dairy Commercial Special
District) zone. The zone is located at approximately 527 East 12300 South. Application
TEXTMAP-0140-2021.        Staff     contact    is   Jennifer    Jastremsky,     801-576-6328,
jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, presented the zoning map and clarified the area to be
affected by the text amendment. She explained that the text amendment would allow medical
services to go into the retail buildings.

Vice Chairman Hawker asked about the definition of medical services.


                                                   7
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 23, 2021
Page 8

Ms. Jastremsky clarified the definition. She stated that the medical services are out-patient only.

Commissioner Fowler asked about whether the medical services were accidentally left out.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that it was not included in the CSD. She stated that most standard
commercial zones allow for medical. She stated that medical offices are no different than standard
offices for parking and architecture.

Vice Chairman Hawker invited the applicant up.

Adam Lankford, applicant, stated that they were approved for phase 2 and had created this list 12
years ago. He stated that medical services have changed over 12 years. He stated that this helps
them to be more competitive.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing.

Vice Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to approve the Text Amendment to add Medical
Services as a permitted use in the CSD-DD zone application TEXTMAP-0140-2021 as
requested by Adam Lankford representing Wasatch Residential Group based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated September 23, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Tonks, Van Hoff, Fowler, Ogden and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

Ms. Jastremsky reminded the commissioners about making up training.

5.     Adjournment

Commissioner Tonks motioned to adjourn the meeting.

All were in favor of adjournment.

The meeting adjourned 7:58 p.m.




                                                 8
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 23, 2021
Page 9




                                          9
