                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 August 16, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: August 26, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Brotherson Inc. Home Occupation – Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: HOCUP-USE-0107-2021
        Applicant:        Stacey Brotherson, representing Brotherson Inc.
        Project Location: 786 E. Golden Pheasant Dr.
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min. lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.52 Acres (Approximately 22,651 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RA2 zone regarding use of an existing detached
                          garage as a photography studio.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.52 acres located on the south side of Golden Pheasant Dr., at
approximately 786 E. Golden Pheasant Dr. (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RA2.
The applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved
to allow for a photography studio in the detached garage.

Brotherson Inc. applied for a Home Occupation business license tied to the subject
property in 2012 for an online retail web site selling jewelry and home décor where there
were no customers coming to the residence (Exhibit F). That license was revoked in June
2021 as it was determined that the business operating from the site was in fact a
photography studio that had customers coming to the residence. This Conditional Use
Permit application appears to be in response to remedying the violations of the zoning and



Brotherson Inc.                                                    App. # USE-0107-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          1
business license ordinances.

The principle home was built in 1998 and the detached garage was completed in 2020. The
garage was constructed to architecturally resemble a barn in appearance. Although
noticeably large, the garage footprint is 1,600 ft² in size and covers only approximately 7%
of the lot size, and complied with applicable setbacks for detached accessory structures at
the time it was built. A loft in the garage provides an additional 800 ft² of floor area, for a
gross floor area of 2,400 ft² (Exhibit E).



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
two dwelling units per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the



Brotherson Inc.                                                       App. # USE-0107-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The RA2 zoning abuts the subject property on the east,
south and west. Across the street to the north is the R3 (Residential, 13,000 ft2 min, lot size)
zone and Corner Canyon High School.

Home Occupation. The applicant is proposing to operate a photography studio from the
subject property out of a detached garage. The garage has a footprint of 1,600 ft², and an
additional loft area of 800 ft². The garage will be used jointly by the business and for
personal use. The applicant has indicated that a personal vehicle is sometimes parked
inside the garage, but may be moved out of the garage for some studio sessions. Most
appointments would be in the evening hours from 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm. During the
Christmas season they offer photo sessions with a Santa Claus which they have found to be
popular with their customers. In addition to the indoor photography offered in the
garage/studio, the business also does outdoor photography at locations other than the
subject property.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             The applicant owns and lives in the home on the property and will be the
             principle employee of the business. The applicant has indicated in their
             responses (Exhibit G) that they will comply with this standard.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             A new business license will be required and the business will be required to
             operate within the approved parameters of the Home Occupation Conditional
             Use Permit.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.




Brotherson Inc.                                                          App. # USE-0107-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
             The applicant has indicated in their responses (Exhibit G) that they will comply
             with this standard. The applicant has indicated they will be the only employee of
             the business.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             The applicant has indicated in their responses (Exhibit G) that they will comply
             with this standard.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             The applicant has indicated in their responses (Exhibit G) that they will comply
             with this standard. Stock and/or inventory of retail merchandise would typically
             be minimal with this type of a business.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.

             The applicant has indicated (Exhibit G) that they will not have any need to alter
             the property due to the business use, with the possible exception of adding
             additional concrete paving in order to widen the parking area in front of the
             garage from 23 feet to 36 feet in order to provide additional parking for the two
             (2) personal vehicles that would be displaced by the allocation of the two (2)
             existing parking stalls for use by the business. This parking area is located in the
             side yard of the home and would not alter the area of the front yard if installed
             (Exhibit E).

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             The applicant has indicated in their responses (Exhibit G) that they will comply
             with this standard.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence



Brotherson Inc.                                                             App. # USE-0107-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
             is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
             for the home occupation.

             The principle residential dwelling on the property is approximately 4,312 ft² in
             size. The gross floor area of the detached garage exceeds the typical size
             limitation of 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling for home based
             businesses, and the total square footage of the garage is roughly equivalent to
             56% of the total floor area of the home. The applicant has proposed asking large
             groups to carpool and to limit photography sessions to an appointment only
             basis lasting between 30-40 minutes with breaks between and no overlapping
             sessions (Exhibit G).

             Staff has received complaints that the use of the garage as a photography studio
             has at times disrupted the normal residential character of the neighborhood
             when large groups of customers have come to the residence at the same time or
             when groups overlap with one another. Unsubstantiated claims have also been
             made that the garage and yard areas have been rented out for large gatherings.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.

             The applicant has indicated in their responses (Exhibit G) that they will comply
             with this standard. No signs have been proposed with the application.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             The applicant has provided a site plan (Exhibit E) indicating that there are two (2)
             paved parking spaces in front of the garage to the east that will be designated
             for use of clients of the business. In order to maintain adequate backing space
             behind these stalls, there can be no other cars parked in tandem on the
             driveway behind either garage. In order to preserve adequate ingress and
             egress, no other cars can be parked along the access driveway during the times
             that the business is in operation. The applicant has indicated that they may
             pave two (2) additional parking stalls adjacent to the two (2) existing stalls for the
             business, but that those new parking stalls would be for personal use only. On-
             street parking is prohibited between the hours of 7:00 am and 3:00 pm in the
             immediate vicinity along Golden Pheasant Drive due to high school traffic.

        J.   Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
             vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which



Brotherson Inc.                                                             App. # USE-0107-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     5
             would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
             shall be allowed on vehicles.

             The applicant has indicated in their responses (Exhibit G) that they will comply
             with this standard. The applicant has indicated to staff that there are no
             business vehicles associated with the business. The applicant would use a
             personal vehicle for traveling to appointments that are off-site. The applicant
             reports that there are currently six (6) personal vehicles being owned and
             operated from the site, they are typically parked within the garages, in the
             existing parking area in front of the detached garage, or in the driveway. No
             vehicle signs are proposed with this application.

        K. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             The applicant requests that the detached accessory garage be permitted to be
             used as the photography studio where customers would come for pictures
             (Exhibit G). Storage of materials associated with the home occupation would be
             stored inside of the garage. Outdoor storage of props or backdrops associated
             with the business should not be permitted.

        L. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             The applicant has requested approval to have customers come to the home
             (Exhibit G). Where parking for the business is limited, and prior issues have
             surfaced with large groups coming to the residence, placing a limit on the
             number of customers coming to the property at one time is a reasonable
             mitigation. Staff suggests that the limit be set at ten (10) customers coming to
             the residence at any one time, corresponding to the number of available parking
             spaces for the business being two (2), and the number of seats in a typical
             passenger vehicle being five (5). Alternatively the applicant has requested that
             the Planning Commission instead consider setting the customer limit at fourteen
             (14), using the typical seating capacity of two (2) minivans instead. As the
             reservation of the two (2) parking spaces for the business appears to be
             displacing needed parking for existing personal vehicles operating from the
             residence, the proposed parking expansion should be required as an additional
             mitigation measure.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.




Brotherson Inc.                                                        App. # USE-0107-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
             The applicant has indicated in their responses (Exhibit G) that they will comply
             with this standard. The Engineering division has indicated in their comments
             (Exhibit A), that the use is not anticipated to generate a significant impact to
             water, sewer, or other utilities.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             The applicant has indicated in their responses (Exhibit G) that they would like
             approval to operate out of the detached garage rather than from the primary
             structure on the property.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
            conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
            dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
            this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
            letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
            case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
            vehicles.

             The property is a single-family residential structure and not a multiple-family
             dwelling. This standard is not applicable to this property.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             This business does not provide child care, is not a cottage food production
             operation, and is not a food related home occupation. Licensure by other
             agencies is not applicable to this type of business operation.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:




Brotherson Inc.                                                          App. # USE-0107-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
             the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
             include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
             screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
             and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
             motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
             applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                   requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                   access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                   space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                   such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                   and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                   city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Brotherson Inc.                                                            App. # USE-0107-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    8
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1. That requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
           Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site,
           including permitting.
        2. That the operation of the home occupation business shall be limited to that of a
           photography studio operated by the applicant as the sole employee, and that no
           additional rental of the garage or yard area to others shall be permitted.
        3. That all business operations shall be contained within the area of the existing
           detached garage. No additional area within the home may be utilized for
           business purposes.
        4. That customers coming to the property be permitted on an appointment only
           basis, with no more than one customer group per hour, allowing sufficient time
           between appointments for one group to leave before the next arrives.
        5. That the hours of operation be limited to no earlier than 8:00 am, and extend no
           later than 8:00 pm.
        6. That customer groups be limited to a size of no more than ten (10) customers at
           any one time.
        7. That the two (2) existing parking stalls be reserved for the use of the business in
           the location as shown on the site plan.
        8. That the additional two (2) parking stalls indicated as proposed stalls on the site
           plan be installed to offset the loss of existing on-site parking for use by the
           residents of the home. These stalls shall not be utilized for the business.



Brotherson Inc.                                                      App. # USE-0107-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
        9. That no parking shall be allowed on the driveway during business hours.
        10. That any signage added to the property for the business must comply with the
            applicable provisions in the sign ordinance.
        11. That the home occupation maintain compliance with all other ordinance
            requirements for home based businesses, including but not limited to the
            requirement that the storage of inventory and materials be entirely within the
            detached garage.
        12. The business shall comply with all local, county, and state licensing standards.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Stacey Brotherson, representing Brotherson Inc., application
USE-0107-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated August 16, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Stacey Brotherson, representing Brotherson Inc.,
application USE-0107-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated August 16, 2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Stacey Brotherson, representing Brotherson Inc., application USE-
0107-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated August 16, 2021.




Brotherson Inc.                                                       App. # USE-0107-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   10
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

We have reviewed the subject home occupation conditional use permit (CUP) application
according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our understanding that
the applicant is requesting a conditional use permit to operate a photo studio at their
residence. Accordingly, we offer the following comments related to the engineering
findings, including the following:


       1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
          and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
          impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
          anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other utilities.

       2. The number of trips generated by potential employee(s), none presently
          anticipated other than the home owner/principal artist, will not have a
          detrimental impact to traffic in the area due the fact many pictures are taken
          past 5 pm, which is outside from the peak school-leave period.

       3. Golden Pheasant Drive is wide enough for on-street parking, while keeping thru-
          traffic flowing at 25 mph. It is still recommended all onsite parking should be in
          the driveway to avoid causing any issues by on-street parking.

       4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
          welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the
          property or improvements in the vicinity.



Building Division Review.
       1. No additional comments.
Fire Division Review.
        1. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
            type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
            conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
            available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the
            extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than
            five (5) feet above the floor.

       2. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
          address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
          property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
         EXHIBIT E
SITE PLANS AND FLOOR PLAN
             EXHIBIT F
PRIOR BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION
             EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE AND REPONSES
                                   Brotherson Home Occupation Permit

We intend to use the Detached Garage for taking Family Photography by appointment only and
sessions last between 30-40 minutes with breaks in between with no overlapping sessions. The
detached garage is mainly used for personal use but can be used for Photography when an
indoor photography session is booked.

9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation allowed as a
permitted use:

A. Ownership: In compliance
B. Business License: In compliance
C. Employees: In compliance
D. Inspection: In compliance
E. Inventory: In compliance
F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a
dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be
carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No
front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-
2015)
       Don’t need to alter for the business use, but more for personal use, may add another 14’ to the
       existing parking for personal use, for 36’ wide x 21’ depth, for 4 cars still keeping the 33’ backup
       allowance and keeping behind the house structure, for 2 cars personal and keeping the 2 for
       business. Currently not in the plans, but asking the question.

G. Nuisance: In compliance
H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary use of the
dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit
shall be used for the home occupation.
        Request alteration or deviation as 100% of the detached garage could be used for photography, using
        different backdrops and designs on the walls. We do use the floor for golf, pickle ball, scooters, storing a
        57 thunderbird, and for personal parties.

I. Signs: In compliance
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or
vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is located. All
parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.
       In compliance, asking clients to carpool if larger families want indoor pictures.
       We have 2 dedicated spots, located North-East of the Detached Garage.
       22’ wide x 21’ depth, 33 feet backup allowance.

       From Section F, 2 spots could be added for more personal parking
K. Vehicles: In compliance
L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any activities or storage
of any materials associated with the home occupation.
       Request alterations or deviations as customers would come to the detached garage for pictures.
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool facility shall
not be considered customers.
       Request alterations or deviations as customers would come to the detached garage for pictures.
N. Utility Demand: In compliance.
O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the
primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
       Request alterations or deviations as using a Detached Garage on the Residence Property for the
       home occupation.

P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: In compliance
Q. Licensure: In compliance
Questions



   1. What is the present use of the property.
       Owners residence with detached garage.
   2. What is the proposed use.
       Owners residence with a photography studio in the detached garage.
   3. Please discuss how the proposed use will fit-in with surrounding uses.
       No signs, No changes, nothing will look any different to the neighbors.
   4. What type of service will it provide to the City of Draper.
       If families want to have indoor pictures at a very reasonable price.
   5. Is the proposed use consistent with the current zoning & land use designation.
       Yes, Studio is by appointment only and will not interfere with traffic.
       Have more traffic with Baseball, Tennis, and School.
   6. Is the proposed use similar or compatible to other uses in the same area.
       Yes,
   7. Is the proposed use suitable for the proposed site.
       Yes
   8. Will the proposed use emit noise, glare, dust, pollutants, & odor.
       No
   9. What will the hours of operation & how many people will be employed.
       Pictures are by appointment only. Stacey the owner is the only employee. We do get Santa to
       come during Christmas. I try to keep the sessions to a minimum, my days are hectic as it is.
   10. How many clients will come to the home daily.
       My busy season is Christmas and could see 1-5 sessions a day, not overlapping and time in
       between. Easter is another busy time, not as busy as Christmas. In 7 months have seen under
       100 clients to take indoor pictures. Warmer months are usually done outdoors in the Draper
       area (Parks, Trails, etc). So maybe 1 a day if that.
