            Questions for the TRSSD applicants


1. Please describe a time where you have worked cooperatively in
   an adversarial environment and obtained a mutually beneficial
   agreement for both parties.


In 2011, my Company acquired a competitor in the shipping
industry specifically with service to Canada. They were a much
smaller company, with only 10 Sales people. I ran the Global Sales
team and assumed they would be happy to join a larger, Global
team. They were not, as a matter of fact, they were against the
acquisition all together. It took years of negotiations and hard
work to bring them onto our way of doing business and retaining
them still to do this day.


2. How has your prior experience, work or education prepared
   you to serve on the TRSSD? - could be accounting knowledge,
   leadership training, or experience with engineering or
   infrastructure.

In running my own Global company in the Logistics industry, I
managed Operations, Marketing, Sales, and Customer Service. My
specialty is solution problem solving, and managing stressful
situations to resolution. Managing hundreds of people in difficult
situations around the world in many different languages with
proper leadership is why I would do well on this board.
3. Why do you want to be involved on the TRSSD, and what do
   you hope to accomplish?

My goal is to help serve my community with excellent
transparency, communication, and follow up. I am a service
provider by nature, covering all the questions to resolution and
seeing problems through. People want to live and grow in a place
like Draper for many reasons, most of all its beautiful, I want to
help keep it that way.

4. What do you see as the best practices on how to build and
   maintain transparency within the board to the members of the
   District and the City?

I see transparency as the key to all the board does for the district.
Trust is the key! Best practices are via communication through
one on one’s with district members, town halls with open
dialogue, Social media outlets for people to post questions and
concerns….and get a proper timely response. Good news and bad
is delivered via a trusted source; People respect that one on one
immensely knowing the best interest in the district is always the
goal!
