                  REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY AGENDA
                  May 4, 2021 at 7:00 PM
                  1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020
                  Council Chambers

7:00 PM BUSINESS MEETING
1.    Call to Order
      a.   This meeting will be an electronic meeting according
           to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040.
           WRITTEN DETERMINATION 2021-30 pursuant to Utah Code
           Ann. 52-4-207(4)

           I, Chair Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an
           electronic meeting of the Draper City Redevelopment Agency
           with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the
           health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor
           location and hereby authorize the Draper City Redevelopment
           Agency to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor
           location.
           The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
                Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City
                Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global
                pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
                While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper
                show an encouraging downward trend and vaccines are
                becoming available to a larger segment of the Draper
                population, vigilance is required so that there isn’t a
                rebound in cases and hospitalizations.
                It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of
                attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding
                social distancing in order to comply with state and local
                health departments health orders.
                COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to
                the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
                The City has the technological capability to provide
                means by which the public may hear, or view and hear,
                the open portions of the meeting and to participate in
                public hearings.

           To participate, please see the options below:
                   Listen through the Draper City Website –
                   https://www.draperutah.gov/95/Agendas-Minutes
                   Email comments to public.comment@draperutah.gov.
                   These will become part of the public record.
2.       Motion: Approval of November 10, 2020, and March 16,
         2021, Redevelopment Agency Minutes
3.       Action Item: Resolution #RDA 21-02
         Approval of Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Tentative Budget and setting
         the public hearing date of June 1, 2021 to receive comment on the
         Tentative Budget. Staff report by Bob Wylie
4.       Adjourn to a City Council Meeting
SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were
posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website
www.draperutah.gov, the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn,
and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.

Date Posted: April 30, 2021
                                         Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder
                                         Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing
special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson,
City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24
hours prior to the meeting.
