                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 May 19, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: May 27, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:     The Flowers Place Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-0054-2021
        Applicant:        Carmen Gerth
        Project Location: 12169 S Andrew View Circle
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft²min area) zone
        Acreage:          0.31 Acres (Approximately 13,504 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RA2 zone regarding a home occupation business in
                          the home as a Florist.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.31 acres located on the south side of Andrew View Circle, at approximately
12169 S Andrew View Circle (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant
is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a
business as a Florist.

The home was built in approximately 1999, is part of the River Park Estates Phase 4
Subdivision and is located at the end of a cul-de-sac.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential



The Flowers Place                                                 App. # USE-0054-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request        1
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
two dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The RA2 zoning designation surrounds the subject
property on all sides.

Proposed Use. The applicant will have one room in the home that is used for floral activity
and storage creating floral arrangements and flower products (approximately 182 ft²). The
applicant will be the only employee for the business and will use their personal vehicle for
product pick-up and delivery. All parking will be in the driveway as no off-site parking will
be allowed, and no customers will come to the home. The hours for the business will be
9:00AM to 5:00PM, Monday through Sunday. Additionally, no signs for the business name
or advertising are approve or allowed with this application for the home or the vehicle.



The Flowers Place                                                       App. # USE-0054-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             For this business, the home owner is the business owner and will have no other
             employees.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             The applicant will comply.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

             There will be no other employees other than the applicant.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             The applicant will comply with this requirement.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             The applicant will use one room in the basement of the home that measures 182
             ft², and a 78-inch cooler in the garage for all business activity.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.

             There will be no alterations with this home business and no visible evidence that
             there is a business in the home.



The Flowers Place                                                         App. # USE-0054-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     3
        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             This business is a florist and will not emit any of the above mentioned items and
             will not create a nuisance.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.

             This business will always be a secondary use to the home as a single family
             dwelling. The business will occupy 182 ft² of the home, or 0.07% of the homes
             2,480 square foot.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.

             There is no signage proposed with this application. Any signage proposed in the
             future would have to comply with DCMC 9-26.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             No customers will be coming to the home, and the applicant does not have any
             business vehicles so no additional traffic in excess will be created above what is
             normal for the zone and the area.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.

             The applicant parks their personal vehicle at the home, and they will only use
             their personal vehicle for business use.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.



The Flowers Place                                                         App. # USE-0054-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
             All of the applicant’s business activity will be conducted in the home. There will
             be no business activity in the yard.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             The applicant will have no customers coming to the home.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             The utility demand for the proposed business will be in alignment with utility use
             for a normal residential use.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             All business activity will reside inside the primary structure on the property.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.

             This is a single family dwelling, and will comply with DCMC Section 9-34-060.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             This is a floral business and does not involve any child care.




The Flowers Place                                                      App. # USE-0054-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
            include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
            screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
            and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
            motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
            denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
            applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                  and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                  city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
            needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.




The Flowers Place                                                        App. # USE-0054-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    6
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
       License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation
       on the property.
    2. The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from
       any and all necessary agencies.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects

The findings for denial as are follows:




The Flowers Place                                                  App. # USE-0054-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
    1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
       alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Carmen Gerth, application USE-0054-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 19, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Carmen Gerth, application USE-0054-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 19, 2021,
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Carmen Gerth, application USE-0054-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 19, 2021.




The Flowers Place                                                  App. # USE-0054-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
 EXHIBIT E
FLOOR PLAN
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIR
