NovusAGENDA
Planning Commission AGENDA March 25, 2021 at 6:30 PM
1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020 Council Chambers 6:30 PM    Business Meeting 1. Electronic Meeting Notice ·       Listen through our website -
https://www.draperutah.gov/95/Agenda - Minutes
·       Email your comments to the project planner listed on the agenda
item below by Noon on the day of the meeting. These will
become part of the public record.
·       If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public
Hearings portion of the meeting, please send a request for the
Zoom Meeting ID to the project planner listed on the agenda
item below by Noon, on the day of the meeting.
2. Written Determination 2021-17 Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 52-4-207(4) I, Andrew Adams, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Planning Commission with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Planning Commission to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
B.        The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper show an encouraging downward trend and vaccines are becoming available to a larger segment of the Draper population, vigilance is required so that there isn’t a rebound in cases and hospitalizations.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with state and local health departments health orders.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
3. Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for February 25, 2021 (Administrative Action) 4. Public Hearing: City Initiated Hedgerow Text Amendment (Legislative Item) On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to amend Section 9-23-110 of Draper City Municipal Code. This application is known as the City Initiated Hedgerow Text Amendment. Application: TEXTMAP-0029-2021. Staff contact: Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.  5. Public Hearing: City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendments #1 (Legislative Item) This item has been continued to a date uncertain.
On the request of Draper City for at Text Amendment to Title 9 of Draper City Municipal Code in order to amend general regulations pertaining to site plan reviews, addressing, appeals, land use buffers, on-street parking, compact parking spaces, lot and yard requirements, swimming pools, and home occupations. This application is known as the City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendments #1. Application: TEXTMAP-0018-2021. Staff Contact: Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov. 6. Annual Ethics Training Training by Mike Barker 7. Adjournment Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning Commission regarding the transfer, issuance or denial of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the City Council by filing written notice of appeal stating the grounds therefore within fourteen (14) days from the date of such final determination. SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News. Date Posted: March 19, 2021 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.