                                  ORDINANCE NO. 1499

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
        AND DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 9) OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
        RELATING      TO     EXEMPTIONS       FROM      THE   TITLE, DEFINITIONS,
        ADMINISTRATIVE AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES, SECOND
        KITCHENS IN SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS, AND ACCESSORY DWELLING
        UNITS IN CODE SECTIONS 9-1-170, 9-3-040, 9-30-010, 9-30-020, 9-31-010, 9-31-
        020, 9-31-030, 9-31-040, 9-31-050, AND 9-31-060; AND ENACTING SECTIONS 9-
        5-120, 9-31-045, 9-31-055, 9-31-070, 9-31-080, AND 9-31-090.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

      WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to amend certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to comply with changes in state law; and

      WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code
has been established to provide regulations concerning development activity within the City
boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development
Code to guide development within the City boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to amend the terms and
provisions of the Land Use and Development Code and to enact new provisions in response
to changes in Utah State Code; and

      WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the proposed changes to the
Land Use and Development Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the proposed changes to the Land Use and Development
Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.    Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings regarding the proposed text amendments to the Land Use and Development
Code: 1. The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of

Ordinance No. 1499                           1                  City Initiated Accessory Dwelling Unit
                                                                                     Text Amendment
the city's general plan. 2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose
statements of the Land Use and Development Code. 3. The proposed amendments are
appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a
modification to the Land Use and Development Code. 4. The proposed amendments will
not create a conflict with any other section or part of the Land Use and Development Code
or General Plan. 5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been
evaluated and determined to be beneficial to public health, safety, and welfare and
represent an overall community benefit. 6. The proposed amendments implement best
current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices and
are consistent with state law. 7. The proposed amendments implement changes in state
law.

       Section 2.     Amendment. Sections 9-1-170, 9-3-040, 9-30-010, 9-30-020, 9-31-010,
9-31-020, 9-31-030, 9-31-040, 9-31-050, and 9-31-060 of the Land Use and Development Code
of the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby amended to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

       Section 3.    Enactment. Sections 9-5-120, 9-31-045, 9-31-055, 9-31-070, 9-31-080,
and 9-31-090 of the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code are
hereby enacted to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 4.    Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimum errors in Exhibit A prior to
submitting the ordinance for publishing.

        Section 5.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 6.      Effective Date. Upon publication or posting, this Ordinance shall
become effective October 1, 2021. If passed after October 1, 2021 it shall become effective
immediately upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer
to the date of final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
___________DAY OF___________, 2021.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:

Ordinance No. 1499                             2                    City Initiated Accessory Dwelling Unit
                                                                                         Text Amendment
_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                             YES              NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1499                   3         City Initiated Accessory Dwelling Unit
                                                                    Text Amendment
                                        EXHIBIT A


9-1-170: EXEMPTIONS FROM THIS TITLE:

   A. The following projects, approved prior to the effective date of this title and subject
      to one or more development agreements with the city, are exempt from the
      provisions of this title:

      1. Sun Crest.

      2. Traverse Mountain planned unit development.

      3. South Mountain.

   B. The projects listed in subsection A of this section shall be governed by:

      1. The terms of the respective development agreements to which they are subject;
         and

      2. Provisions of title 9 in effect when such agreements became effective, except as
         may be modified by an applicable development agreement.

   C. Copies of applicable development agreements and zoning provisions may be
      obtained from the community development department.

   B. Nowithstanding subsection A of this section, provisions of this title applicable to
      second kitchens and accessory dwelling units, including detached accessory
      dwelling units and internal accessory dwelling units, apply to all property within
      Draper City.

   C. The projects listed in subsection A of this section shall be governed by:

      1. The terms of the respective development agreements to which they are subject;
         and

      2. Provisions of title 9 in effect when such agreements became effective, except as
         may be modified by an applicable development agreement.

   D. Copies of applicable development agreements and zoning provisions may be
      obtained from the community development department.
9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

…

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A subordinate residential dwelling, detached from the
primary dwelling unit, which has a kitchen, living/sleeping area, and sanitation facilities. A
habitable living unit added to, created within, or detached from a primary dwelling and
contained on one lot.

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED (D-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit, detached
from a primary dwelling.

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL (I-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit created:

    A. Within a primary dwelling;

    B. Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory
       dwelling unit is created; and

    C. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.

DWELLING OCCUPANT: One or more persons living in a dwelling unit.

…

DWELLING, PRIMARY: A single-family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the
primary residence of the owner of record.

DWELLING, RENTAL: A dwelling that is used or designated for use as a residence by one or
more persons; and

    A. Available to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period of one month or
       longer; or

    B. Arranged designed, or built to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period of
       one month or longer.

…

DWELLING UNIT: A single unit consisting of oneOne or more rooms in a dwelling designed
for or occupied as separate living quarters for living purposes by one or more persons
which provides complete and independent facilities for living including the provision of
living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitarysanitation facilities. and which includes at least
one kitchen where all rooms are for exclusive collective use by the occupants and the
property is under one deed of title.
DWELLING UNIT FOOTPRINT: The perimeter footing or foundation of the dwelling unit.

…

HABITABLE LIVING UNIT: See definition of Dwelling Unit.

…

HOUSEHOLD: A family living together in a single dwelling unit with common access to and
common use of all living, and eating, cooking, areas and sanitiation facilities for the
preparation and serving of food within the dwelling unit.

…

HOUSEKEEPING: See definition of Household.

…

OWNER OF RECORD: An individual listed as the owner of property on the records of the
county assessor.

…



9-5-210: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU) PERMITS:

    A. Purpose: This section sets forth procedures for issuing, renewing, transferring and
       revoking permits for an ADU under the provisions of chapter 31 of this title.

    B. Authority: The zoning administrator is authorized to review and approve
       applications for an ADU.

    C. Initiation: The owner of record or their agent may request approval of an initial ADU
       permit to establish an ADU on the owner’s property or to amend an existing permit.

    D. Procedure: Applications for approval of an initial ADU permit or to amend an
       existing ADU shall be reviewed and processed as provided in this section:

       1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
            administrator in a form established by the zoning administrator along with any
            fee established by the city’s consolidated fee schedule. The application shall
            include at least the following information:

            a. The name, address and telephone number of the owner of record and the
               owner of record’s agent, if any.

            b. Scaled site plans illustrating:
        (1) Property boundaries and dimensions;

        (2) Layout of existing and proposed buildings and parking; and

        (3) Building setbacks from property lines.

   c. Floor plans of all floors.

   d. For new proposed construction: architectural elevation drawings of all four
      sides of the structure including details of proposed colors and materials; or

   e. For existing structures: digital photographs of all four sides of the existing
      building.

   f.   A copy of the current sewer bill for the primary dwelling. For properties
        where the primary dwelling is not connected to sewer, provide evidence of
        septic system maintenance including pumping records for the previous 12
        months or certificate of approval from the respective county health
        department.

   g. Other information as needed or requested by the zoning administrator to
      demonstrate that the use conforms to applicable provisions of this title.

2. After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning administrator
   shall review the application and approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
   application pursuant to the standards set forth in subsection 9-5-210(E). As part
   of the review process the zoning administrator may forward a copy of the
   application and any related materials to other agencies. Any conditions of
   approval shall be limited to conditions needed to conform to the approval
   standards.

3. After making a decision the zoning administrator shall give the applicant written
   notice of the decision.

4. An annual renewal of each ADU permit issued under the applicable provisions of
   section 9-31-030 and this section shall be required.

   a. The application for the annual renewal shall consist of a signed and notarized
      affidavit from the owner of record on a form approved by the city attorney
      attesting to the following:

        (1) The applicant is the current owner of record;

        (2) The applicant continues to occupy the primary dwelling on the property
            as their primary residence;
          (3) The ADU remains in compliance with applicable ordinances and all
              conditions under which it was approved;

          (4) That continued use the ADU will comply with all applicable ordinances
              and the conditions of the initial ADU permit.

      b. When an ADU permit is renewed the zoning administrator shall issue a
         certificate of renewal inclusive of the next annual date on which the
         certificate and ADU permit shall expire if not renewed.

   5. ADU permits may be transferred to a new owner of the property.

      a. An application for transfer of an ADU permit shall consist of a signed and
         notarized affidavit from the new owner on a form approved by the city
         attorney attesting to the following:

          (1) The applicant is the current owner of record;

          (2) The applicant occupies the primary dwelling on the property as their
              primary residence;

          (3) The ADU remains in compliance with applicable ordinances and all
              conditions under which it was approved;

          (4) That continued use the ADU will comply with all applicable ordinances
              and the conditions of the initial ADU permit.

      b. Before transfer of an ADU permit to a new owner may occur, an inspection of
         the property by the city for verification of continued compliance with
         applicable ordinances and conditions of the initial ADU permit shall be
         required.

      c. When an ADU permit is transferred to a new owner the zoning administrator
         shall issue a new ADU permit in the name of the new owner inclusive of all
         conditions of the initial ADU permit.

   6. A record of all ADU permits shall be maintained in the office of the zoning
      administrator.

E. Approval Standards: The following standards shall apply to the issuance of an ADU
   permit. An ADU must:

   1. Be a permitted use in the applicable zone;

   2. Be located on a property that is not restricted or prohibited from having an ADU
      by any of the provisions within chapter 31 of this title;
        3. Comply with development standards of the applicable zone and chapter 31 of
           this title;

        4. Comply with applicable regulations of general applicability and regulations for
           the specific use as set forth in this title;

        5. Comply with applicable provisions of state code;

        6. Comply with any other applicable requirements of this code.

   F. Appeal of Decision: The applicant or an adversely affected party may appeal the
      zoning administrator’s decision to approve or deny an ADU permit in accordance
      with the provisions of section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

   G. Effect of Approval: Approval of an ADU permit shall authorize the owner of record to
      establish an ADU on the property or to continued use of an ADU in compliance with
      the requirements of chapter 31 of this title and subject to any conditions of
      approval. An owner of record establishing or modifying an ADU shall still be
      required to obtain any building permit or encroachment permit needed for the
      construction work and/or inspections necessary to establish the ADU.

   H. Surrender: The holder of an ADU permit may voluntarily obtain the applicable
      building permit or demolition permit to remove an ADU, restore the property to use
      as a single-family dwelling, and surrender the ADU permit to the city. A permit
      holder that wants to keep the kitchen associated with the ADU must comply with
      the requirements of chapter 30 of this title. Once the restoration to a single-family
      dwelling is complete the City shall record a notice of release from any notice of
      accessory dwelling unit previously recorded, and record a separate notice of second
      kitchen if necessary.

   I.   Expiration: An ADU permit that authorizes the construction of an ADU shall expire if
        a building permit is not issued within one-hundred eighty (180) days of the ADU
        permit issuance. Individual ADU permits shall expire one (1) year from the date of
        issue, but can be renewed, transferred, or surrendered under the provisions of this
        section. The renewal of an ADU permit authorizing the construction of an ADU shall
        not be approved if the certificate of occupancy for the ADU has not been issued
        prior to the expiration of the permit, and a new application for the ADU permit shall
        be required.



9-30-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for a second
kitchen within a single-family dwelling. These regulations are adopted for the following
purposes:

   A. To allow city residents to have a second kitchen within a single-family dwelling unit
      for use by the family residing within the dwelling unit for the purpose of
      entertaining, recreation or convenience, accessory to the first kitchen within the
      dwelling unit.

   B. Approval of a To prohibit the use of a second kitchen within a single-family dwelling
      unit shall not be an approval of that functions as a second dwelling unit or internal
      accessory dwelling unit (I-ADU) in violation of without the required approvals for
      such as prescribed under chapter 31 of this title.



9-30-020: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:

   A. A second kitchen in a single-family residence (dwelling unit) may be allowed in an
      A5, A2, RA1, RA2, RH, R3, R4, R5, MPC, or RSD zone if all of the following
      requirements are met:

      1. The residence shall have dwelling has only one front entrance.

      2. The residence shall have dwelling has only one address.

      3. An interiorInterior access shall be is maintained to all parts of the
      residencedwelling to assure that an second dwelling unit or I-ADU accessory unit or
      apartment is not created. There shall be no keyed or dead bolt locks or other
      manner of limiting or restricting access between both kitchens and other common
      areas within the single-family dwelling from the second kitchen to the remainder of
      the residence.

      4. The dwellingresidence shall have has no more than one electrical meter.

      5. AThe second kitchen shall exists only as part of the single-family dwelling
      primary and shall is not be installed in an accessory or "out" building except as
      permitted with a D-ADU pursuant to section 9-31-050.

      6. Construction of any such kitchen shall meet standards of the current building
      codes adopted by the city.

   B. A second kitchen shall not be established in a single-family dwellingresidential
      structure which contains an I-ADUaccessory dwelling, whether or not such accessory
      dwelling was established pursuant to chapter 31 of this title.
9-31-010: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for accessory
dwelling units (ADUs) within specified residential zones. These regulations are adopted:

   A. To allow city residents to accommodate guests on the residential property in the
      same manner and purpose as the main dwelling;

   B. To accommodate an ADU in single dwelling zones that allow only one dwelling
      structure per parcel with minimal impacts on the neighborhood in terms of traffic,
      noise, parking, congestion, and compatible scale and appearance of surrounding
      residential buildings; and

   C. To establish uniform standards of use and development of ADUs



9-31-020: SCOPE:

The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any all ADUs within the city. ADUs shall be a
permitted use in all residential zoning districts or when a single parcel unit is approved in
the RM1 and RM2 zoning districts, but only when the minimum lot areas as required in
section 9-10-090, table 9-10-3 of this title, is satisfied. ADUs are also permitted in residential
special districts (RSD) if the minimum lot area of the single unit parcel is twelve thousand
(12,000) square feet.

   A. I-ADUs shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts except as
      prohibited within the areas identified on the map included as Exhibit A in section 9-
      31-090 of this chapter. I-ADUs may only be established in the prohibited areas
      identified in Exhibit A of section 9-31-090 upon approval of a deviation by the
      planning commission as outlined in section 9-31-055.

   B. D-ADUs shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts, master
      planned community zones (MPC), and residential special districts (RSD) on individual
      lots or parcels twelve-thousand square feet (12,000 ft²) or greater in size that
      contain no more than one single-family dwelling.



9-31-030: DEFINITIONS:GENERAL REGULATIONS:

As used in this chapter:

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A subordinate residential use detached from the
primary dwelling unit, which has a kitchen, living/sleeping area, and sanitation facilities.
DWELLING LOT: A parcel with one dwelling unit.

DWELLING OCCUPANT: One or more persons living in a dwelling unit.

DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a single dwelling designed for or occupied as living
quarters which provide sleeping and sanitary facilities and which includes at least one
kitchen, and where all rooms are for exclusive collective use by the occupants and the
property is under one deed of title.

DWELLING UNIT FOOTPRINT: The perimeter footing or foundation of the dwelling unit.

PARCEL: A lot legally subdivided and assigned a county assessor's parcel number (APN).
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

   A. An ADU shall not be rented or leased or offered for rent or lease unless the owner
      of record possesses a valid ADU Permit.

   B. D-ADUs shall not be permitted for any property containing an I-ADU. As a condition
      of approval for an application for a new D-ADU the owner of record shall agree to
      waive any right to create an I-ADU on the same property unless the D-ADU is first
      removed from the property. This condition shall be included in the recorded notice
      of accessory dwelling unit required by section 9-31-060 of this chapter.

   C. Primary dwellings are not permitted to contain more than one I-ADU. I-ADUs are not
      permitted within a D-ADU or other detached structure.

   D. I-ADUs shall not be permitted in single-family residential dwellings located on lots or
      parcels that are six-thousand square feet (6,000 ft²) or less in size.

   E. I-ADUs are not permitted within mobile homes.

   F. I-ADUs are not permitted within a primary dwelling unit serviced by a failing septic
      system.

   G. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any I-ADU or D-ADU.

   H. An I-ADU shall not be rented or leased for a time period of less than thirty (30)
      consecutive days. Only one rental agreement or lease shall be in effect at any one
      time.

   I.   The primary dwelling associated with an ADU shall be occupied by the owner of
        record as their primary residence and shall not be separately rented, or offered for
        rent. If the primary dwelling associated with the ADU ceases to be occupied by the
        owner of record, the ADU shall not be rented, leased, hired or loaned.
   J.   An ADU Permit issued by the zoning administrator shall be required for the
        development and use of any ADU and shall only be issued once all regulations and
        standards of this section and sections 9-31-040 or 9-31-045 as applicable to the
        specific type of ADU are met. The ADU Permit shall be subject to the application
        and review procedures, including the annual renewal requirements and procedures
        of section 9-5-210.



9-31-040: D-ADU DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each D-ADU:

   A. Separate Structure: An D-ADU is a separate structure from the primary dwelling
      contained on the same lot or parcel as the primary dwellingunit. Second kitchens
      within a dwelling unit's footprint are not considered an ADU and are subject to
      requirements found in chapter 30 of this title.

   B. Conditions: An D-ADU may shall comply with the applicable requirements of section
      9-31-030 and all of be allowed under the following conditions:

        1. Only one D-ADU shall be allowed per dwelling lot or parcel.

        2. An D-ADU shall comply with the same setbacks for a main building in not be
        within the building front, rear, or side yard setbacks for the zoning district in which
        the dwelling lot or parcel is located.

        3. An D-ADU shall be located within the rear yard area of the lot or parcel and is
        prohibited within the front yard areanot be built prior to the completion of the
        dwelling unit.

        4. An ADU shall provide atAt least one additional parking stall than above the
        minimum required for the primary dwelling unit shall be provided on site and be
        reserved for exclusive use by occupants of the D-ADU in its zoning district. The
        parking stall(s) provided for use of the occupants of the D-ADU may not be located
        in tandem with parking stalls designed to serve the primary dwelling and shall be
        accessible from the street by a driveway constructed of a hard surface, such as
        concrete or asphalt. Driveways must conform to all requirements of section 9-10-
        075 and other applicable requirements of this title. Parking stalls shall be
        constructed of concrete or asphalt and shall comply with the applicable
        requirements of sections 9-25-070 and 9-25-080.

        5. No separate mailbox, street address, or water, sewer, electric or gas utility
        metering shall be allowed for an ADU.
       56. An The total square footage of a D-ADU shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
       the primary dwelling’s unit's total square footage of habitable space not including
       the garage.

       67. An D-ADU shall comply with all building construction and fire codes in effect at
       the time the D-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled, including
       the obtaining of the required building and other permits.

       78. The architectural design, color pallet, and materials for an of a D-ADU shall
       match those of the primary dwelling unit.

       89. The height of an D-ADU shall conform to the height limit specified for main
       buildings in the zoning district in which it is located.



9-31-045: I-ADU DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each I-ADU:

   A. Existing Structure: An I-ADU shall be contained within the existing footprint of the
      primary dwelling. Second kitchens within the primary dwelling's footprint are not
      considered an I-ADU and are subject to requirements found in chapter 30 of this
      title. An existing second kitchen located within a primary dwelling can be converted
      as part of an application for the creation of an I-ADU in compliance with all other
      standards for I-ADUs listed in this chapter.

   B. Conditions: An I-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of section 9-31-
      030 and with all of the following conditions:

       1. Only one I-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.

       2. At least one additional parking stall above the minimum required for the primary
          dwelling shall be provided on site and be reserved for exclusive use by
          occupants of the I-ADU. The parking stall(s) provided for use of the occupants of
          the I-ADU may not be located in tandem with parking stalls designed to serve the
          primary dwelling and shall be accessible from the street by a driveway.
          Driveways must conform to all requirements of section 9-10-075 and other
          applicable requirements of this title. Parking stalls shall be constructed of
          concrete or asphalt and shall comply with the applicable requirements of
          sections 9-25-070 and 9-25-080.

       3. If an I-ADU is created within a garage or carport attached to the primary
          dwelling, the parking spaces contained within the garage or carport that are
          removed shall be replaced in accordance with current parking and access
          standards.

       4. The I-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in
          effect at the time the I-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled.
          The owner of record shall be responsible to ensure that all required building
          permits and other permits are obtained for the creation of an I-ADU.

       5. In accommodating an I-ADU within the primary dwelling, the exterior of the
          primary dwelling may not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter
          the appearance of the primary dwelling from that of a single-family dwelling.



9-31-050: ADDITIONAL SECOND KITCHENS:

An additional second kitchen in an D-ADU may be allowed for the purpose of
entertainment or recreation as long as the second kitchen is not intended to serve a does
not create a separate dwelling unit living accommodation within the D-ADU.



9-31-055: DEVIATIONS:

   A. Deviation Authorized: A deviation from strict compliance with the prohibition of I-
      ADUs on properties located within the areas identified on the I-ADU map in Exhibit A
      of this chapter may be approved by the planning commission if all of the following
      criteria are met and the planning commission finds that:

       1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least twenty-
          thousand square feet (20,000 ft²);

       2. No D-ADU exists on the property;

       3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-
          31-045, including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and

       4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are
          provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.



9-31-060: NOTICE OF ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT:

   A. As part of the ADU permit process, the owner of the property shall execute a "notice
      of accessory dwelling unit" affidavit that defines the approved use and all
      restrictions or conditions of approval. The city shall record the notice with the
       county recorder as a use condition on the property. The notice shall be in a form
       approved by the Draper City attorney. Once recorded, a copy of the notice shall be
       delivered to the owner of record.

   B. The notice of accessory dwelling unit shall include:

       1. A legal description and address of the property;

       2. Either of the following statements as applicable to the type of ADU permit being
          issued:

          a. The primary dwelling contains an approved I-ADU and that the I-ADU may
             only be used in accordance with the land use regulations of Draper City; or

          b. The property has an approved D-ADU and that the D-ADU may only be used
             in accordance with the land use regulations of Draper City.



9-31-070: NONCONFORMING UNITS:

   A. Accessory dwelling units legally established prior to October 1, 2021 may continue
      to operate under the applicable provisions in effect at the time they were approved
      and established in accordance with chapter 6 of this title. Legal nonconforming
      ADUs shall also be required to obtain and maintain an ADU permit under the
      procedures of section 9-5-210.

   B. Existing legal nonconforming ADUs without separate street addressing or
      mailboxes, shall be permitted under this section to obtain and display a separate
      street address and add the accompanying mailbox to the property without affecting
      their nonconforming status. All addressing must receive approval from both Draper
      City and the Salt Lake County Addressing department.



9-31-080: VIOLATIONS:

Violations of this chapter shall be enforced consistent with this title and state code and may
include fines and liens.

   A. Notice of Violation:

       1. Whenever an owner of record has violated any of the provisions of this chapter
          the city shall provide a written notice of violation. The notice of violation shall:

          a. Describe the violation;
      b. Provide the owner of record an opportunity to cure or correct the violation
         that is:

            (1) Not less than 14 days after the notice of violation is issued, for violations
                of 9-31-030(H);

            (2) Not less than 30 days after the notice of violation is issued for any other
                violation;

      c. Include a statement that if the owner of record fails to cure the violation
         within the given time period that they may be subject to daily fines, liens, the
         revocation of permits or approvals, criminal prosecution, and other
         enforcement actions permitted by applicable law;

      d. Provide notification to the owner of record that they may file a written
         objection to the violation within 14 days after the day on which the written
         notice of violation is post-marked or posted on the property;

      e. Indicate the department name and address where the owner of record may
         file the written objection;

      f.    Be mailed to the owner of record, or to any other individual designated to
            receive notice in the owner’s license or permit records, and a copy shall be
            posted on the property.

   2. If an owner of record files a written objection to the written notice of violation in
      accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-530(5) as amended, the zoning administrator
      shall provide notice, hold a hearing, and conduct a review to determine whether
      the violation described in the written notice of violation has occurred. If the
      zoning administrator determines that the violation in the notice of violation has
      occurred, the city may impose any remedies permitted by applicable law.

   3. If an owner of record does not file a written objection to the notice of violation
      and does not cure the violation within the time period provided in the notice, the
      city may impose any of the remedies listed in this section or others as permitted
      by applicable law.

   4. If an owner of record cures a violation within the time period prescribed in the
      notice of violation, or if the zoning administrator finds that the violation listed in
      the notice of violation has not occurred, the city may not impose sanctions.

B. Liens:

   1. Notice of lien:

      a. A written notice of lien issued under this section shall:
          (1) Comply with the requirements of Utah Code 38-12-102 as amended;

          (2) State that the property is subject to a lien;

          (3) Specify the lien amount for each day of violation after the day on which
              the opportunity to cure the violation expired; and

          (4) Be mailed to the owner of record, or to any other individual designated to
              receive notice in the owner’s license or permit records, and a copy of the
              notice shall be posted on the property.

      b. Each notice of lien shall be recorded with the respective county recorder.

C. Revocation:

   1. An ADU permit may be revoked if the zoning administrator determines:

      a. Actions taken under the permit do not conform to the approved plans,
         specifications, or conditions of the permit;

      b. The permit was procured by false representation;

      c. The permit was issued by mistake; or

      d. That other applicable provisions of this title are being violated.

   2. The city shall serve written notice of revocation by mailing the notice by certified
      mail to the owner of record as listed on the ADU permit, or by posting the notice
      in a prominent location on the site.

   3. After the written notice of revocation is served no further construction for an
      ADU may continue until a new permit is issued, or the permit is reinstated by the
      zoning administrator.

      a. If the permit was issued by mistake, the city shall notify the owner of record
         of the mistake and the actions or changes that must be made to bring the
         ADU into compliance with applicable requirements and ordinances.

      b. For properties where a permit has been revoked for any reason other than a
         mistake, a new or reinstated ADU permit may not be issued except in
         conformance with applicable ordinances, resolutions, regulations, and
         requirements.

   4. If an ADU permit is revoked due to failure to comply with the approved plans,
      specifications, or conditions of the permit or when other applicable provisions of
      this title are being violated, a written notice of violation shall be provided with
      the notice of revocation.
       5. Properties for which an ADU permit has been revoked may be subject to the
          recordation of a notice of non-compliance against the property and shall be
          prohibited from renting, leasing, hiring or loaning the accessory dwelling unit.

   D. Other remedies: The city shall have such other remedies as are and may be from
      time to time provided by Utah law or city ordinance for the violation of any
      provision of this title.

   E. All remedies pertaining to violations of this chapter are cumulative.



9-31-090: EXHIBITS:

Exhibit A
                                                 11400 S
                                                                                                                       Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit (I-ADU)
                                                                                                                                   Prohibited Areas




                                Lone P
                                                                                                                                          ¯

                                                                                              700 E
                                       ea
                                  k P k wy


                12300 S




                                                                 300 E
                                                !
                                                $
                                                "
                                                #
                                                15                                                                                                                        Legend
                                                                                                                                                                             I-ADUs prohibited
                                                                                                                                                                             City Limits




                                                                                                                                 1300 E
                                                                                                                                                                             Parcels




                                                                                                      Fort St
                                                                                                                                                                      0      ¼         ½         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Miles




                                                                                                                                Dr
                                                                                                                            d
                                                                                  13800 S                              l an
                                                                                                                     gh
                                                                                                                Hi




                                                                                    idge Rd
                                                                             verse R
                                                                         Tra




                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                         s   tD
                                                                                                                                                      re
                                                                                                                                                 nc
                                                                                                                                              Su




                                             The purple area includes lots that are 6,000 sq. ft. or
                                             less and lots that are otherwise prohibited. Lots that are
                                             otherwise prohibited represent 20.5% of the total area in
                                             the city zoned primarily for residential use.




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Print Date: 9/16/2021


______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
