MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, MAY 18, 2021,
IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (by
                    phone), Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha
                    Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott
                    Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource
                    Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
                    Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie,
                    Finance Director; Jen Jastremsky, Senior Planner
_____________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically.
This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code
2-                                                                            1-040.

Determination 2020-25, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)

I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of
the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the
health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby
authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor
location.

The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:

           • Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and
       City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of
       the COVID-19 virus.
           • While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations show an encouraging
       downward trend and vaccines are becoming available to a larger segment of
       the Draper population, diligence is required so that there is not a rebound in
       cases and hospitalizations.




Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – May 18, 2021
         • It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any
      meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply
      with applicable health orders.
         • COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health,
      safety, and welfare of Draper City residents and the public in general.
         • The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the
      public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to
      participate in public hearings.

To participate, please see the options below:
   • Listen         through        the      Draper    City      website       -
      https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas- Minutes.
   • Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us. These will become part of
      the public record.
   • Those wishing to speak during the meeting, send a request and include your
      name, address, and phone number which you will be calling from, for the
      Zoom meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us.

Study Session

1.0   Presentation: South Valley Chamber of Commerce Budget - Jay Francis

1.1   Jay Francis, President, and CEO of the South Valley Chamber of Commerce said
      that he retired a year ago from the Larry Miller Group after 35 years. He said
      that he would leave the Council with a full annual report to supplement his
      slides.

      One of the highlights for the Chamber of the past year was hosting what they
      called an executive forum. The Chamber was able to hold one of these forums
      at PluralSight as one of the first users of the building. In addition, they hosted
      Governor Spencer Cox. He continued that one of the Chamber’s hallmarks
      was the education provided to small businesses. He said they have three
      pillars under what they call the Business Institute.

      The first is the Leadership Program which was just started in the past year and
      featured three sessions of full-day training for up-and-coming civic leaders
      that are exposed to different issues and topics. He said that this was the first
      time the South Valley Chamber had offered this program, but the Salt Lake
      Chamber had offered it for years.

                                                                           Page 2 of 16
The second program, the Business Accelerator, was the Chamber’s hallmark.
It was similar to a Masters of Business Administration (MBA) course. Mr.
Francis said that the fourth cohort finished the day of the meeting. The
program consisted of a 10-week course that taught fundamentals to small and
mid-sized businesses. He said that he had listened to 16 small business
owners present their business plans after having completed the program and
how the 10-weeks had changed their perspective was rewarding. He said that
it was interesting to hear how the businesses had said that the program was
life-changing. A fifth cohort would start on August 1st. To offer this program
twice a year was new for the Chamber.

The final pillar under the Business Institute was the Business Academy. These
were one to two hour courses for two to three weeks in a row on a specific
topic such as HR, IT, or accounting that small businesses needed access to, but
could not afford to hire a CPA or HR director.

Mr. Francis then highlighted some events the Chamber hosts. These included
events like Women in Business that are held monthly. He noted that at a
recent meeting of the Women in Business group they honored nine high
school girls who were given scholarships after participating in the Junior
Women’s program. Girls in this program have to spend an hour and a half a
month to meet with mentors and participate in Women and Business
meetings. After these students communicate with the Chamber about the
college they plan to attend, the $1,000 scholarship is sent directly to that
college. Another event, Let’s Do Lunch, is an opportunity for businesses to
connect. This year the Chamber alternated this event so that every other
month there was a speaker to present to the group. He said that attendees
were not allowed to pick their tables so that attendees had to get out of their
comfort zone. Lastly, every two to three months, the Chamber hosts an event
called In The Know where updates were provided. Guests included speakers
such as local health departments, an accountant to help businesses learn how
to do Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans, Alan Matheson from The
Point, and an upcoming presentation on mental health in the workplace. The
event recently became sponsored by KSL.

He continued that the Chamber was involved in the COVID-19 response on
issues such as workplace policies, vaccine rollout, and customer requirements.
In addition, the Chamber supported small businesses with PPP loans. Because

                                                                  Page 3 of 16
venues and restaurants got hit so hard as a result of the pandemic, the
Chamber worked with hotels from Sandy to Draper. Through some funding,
the Chamber purchased some Visa gift cards that were given to people to
encourage them to spend a night at a local hotel.

The Chamber also started a new Small Business Committee. The committee
was chaired by two small businesses and had a total of 16 members. They
were looking specifically at small business needs and then would reach out to
the larger Chamber to have those needs met. One of the initiatives that came
out of the committee was a podcast that had gained a lot of traction. Many of
the members of the committee were graduates of the Business Accelerator
Program and want to have a Business Accelerator 2.0.

In 2020 the Chamber was able to retain 96% of its membership. He said when
he began in October he realized that it would be difficult right now to convince
new businesses to join. They were simply just trying to stay alive. Because of
this, the Chamber worked hard to shore up current members and help them.
75 new members had joined since last March. Some of these notable new
members included Raddon Development, Merit Medical, TopGolf, Gardner
Company, Utah Motorsports, US Bank, and Deseret Management (KSL). There
were six new Draper members: Summit Sotheby’s International, Swire Coca-
Cola, Loveland Living Planet Aquarium, Utah Warriors Rugby, Brandless, and
IKEA. He said that Brandless and Coca-Cola were now on the Chamber’s
board. The Brandless CEO founded the Women’s Tech Council. He said that
she was amazing.

Mr. Francis noted that the president of the South Valley Chamber had the
opportunity to be on two committees with Alan Matheson regarding The Point.
He said this was an opportunity to make sure that the business voices were
being heard. He recognized that some of the Draper Council was on those
committees and he said that he had heard their voices.

Lastly, Mr. Francis said that the Chamber would be hosting a job fair the
following day. High school and college kids would be coming to Boondocks to
apply for jobs. He said that hotels and restaurants were reopening, but they
struggled to fill their positions. He said that the restaurant on the top of the
hill, The Ridge, was a place that the Chamber worked with as a venue for
lunches. Mr. Francis said that the manager had recently called to inform the



                                                                   Page 4 of 16
      Chamber that they had to close for lunch because the restaurant didn’t have
      enough employees.

1.2   Councilmember T. Lowery asked if Mr. Francis had information on the job fair
      that the Council could share and advertise, as well as information on the In
      The Know event on mental health. Mr. Francis said that he would get that
      information sent to Draper staff.

1.3   Councilmember F. Lowry asked what the City can do to help support the South
      Valley Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Francis said that Draper had been great.
      He said that when the Chamber needed a facility, they tried to spread the
      wealth and bring its events to Draper. He said that what was going on on the
      south side of the valley was phenomenal. He said that the Miller Group
      reached out to share with him what was going on in Daybreak. He said that it
      was going to be such a big project.

1.4   Councilmember F. Lowry asked how the Draper Chamber could interact with
      the South Valley Chamber. He wanted to know if there was a way to bring the
      two chambers together. Mr. Francis said that the South Valley Chamber would
      invite that interaction. He said that he met with the Draper Chamber’s
      chairman and a board member to communicate that the South Valley
      Chamber wanted to invite the Draper Chamber to participate in more
      collaboration. He said that there was an opportunity in November of last year
      when a salaried position opened in the South Valley Chamber for more
      collaboration with Draper, but the proposal was not accepted. Mr. Francis said
      that the South Valley Chamber was happy to help and invite Draper Chamber
      members to events like Women in Business, even if they were not part of the
      South Valley Chamber. He said that the South Valley Chamber was grateful
      for its corporate support that allowed them to offer its great programs and
      wanted to extend those opportunities.

1.5   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt like the work that the South Valley
      Chamber did during COVID was above and beyond. She said that she thought
      it meant a lot to Draper’s small business community, especially the support
      around Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and getting grants. She felt that
      it was instrumental in keeping some small businesses afloat.

      She then asked if the Chamber was continuing to expand to other cities in the
      South Valley area. Mr. Francis said they would like to look at it. He said that

                                                                        Page 5 of 16
      he has told his board, who have an itch to expand, that he would like to make
      sure the Chamber has solid footing. He said that what made sense in terms
      of expansion was Midvale, which didn’t have a local Chamber but had Gardner
      Company and Zions with who the Chamber had existing relationships with.
      Although the Chamber already had members from Midvale, they’d like to get
      City support. The other City that it made sense to expand to include was South
      Jordan. He said that South Jordan was going to take some time because some
      of his predecessors might have misstepped. He said that a lot of the new
      memberships over the last five months had come from South Jordan.

      Councilmember T. Lowery’s second question was related to lobbying. She said
      that the Salt Lake Chamber did quite a bit of lobbying. She asked if the South
      Valley Chamber did any lobbying, or anticipated doing so.

      Mr. Francis said that they were just now putting together a Public Policy and
      Governmental Affairs Committee. He said that in the past South Valley had
      worked with the Salt Lake Chamber on lobbying issues. However, he felt that
      the South Valley Chamber was developing more and more unique needs that
      warranted them having their own voice and advocates. Because of this, the
      Chamber put together the Public Policy and Governmental Affairs Committee
      which David Dobbins, City Manager, had agreed to sit on to provide Draper
      representation. He continued that the world on the Hill was one that he didn’t
      get and made him come away feeling disoriented. He recognized that other
      people get it, though. The first meeting of the new committee would be held
      in June to determine what members of the Chamber needed representation.
      He said that the Chamber was going to stay part of the larger group.

2.0   Discussion: Fireworks Restriction Map for 2021 - Deputy Chief Bart Vawdrey

2.1   Deputy Chief Vawdrey said that there were not a lot of changes regarding
      fireworks restrictions from 2020. He said that the only addition was that the
      area north of 1300 East and the corner that wraps around to 700 East due to
      the rail system. He said that he had a meeting that morning with folks from
      the State Forestry Fire and State Lands, Utah County, and Greg Hilbig from
      Draper. He said that the work Mr. Hilbig was doing up in the higher elevations
      of Draper was stuff that he previously had not been able to get to until July.

      Deputy Chief Vawdrey drove through some of Draper’s urban areas with some
      of these folks and anticipated a busy season. The area was already drying out.

                                                                       Page 6 of 16
      It was anticipated that the fire season would start in June, about a month and
      a half early. When looking at grasses and foliage, it looked as though they
      were about two weeks before they browned out and contributed to an early
      fire season.

2.2   Mayor Walker asked if there was going to be an emphasis on enforcement
      given the dry year. Deputy Chief Vawdrey said that they were going to have to
      rely heavily on law enforcement to regulate fireworks. He said that the reason
      why they needed to close the new area off was that last year there were people
      who would gather at the vacant parking lot and shoot off fireworks. This not
      only caused problems for the property owners but caused some dry areas
      behind the parking lot to catch fire. He said that he was sure the Fire Chief
      would be working closely with Police Chief Eining when it got closer to the
      holidays.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the City was already into fire season.
      Deputy Chief Vawdrey said that the fire season was close. He said that the
      State and Utah County already had crews assigned to fires. This was unheard
      of. He said that Draper’s crew would not be put on the board until June 1st.
      Requests had already come for support for some major fires already burning
      in California. He said that it was almost as though there wasn’t a fire season
      anymore. There were just fires.

      Mayor Walker clarified that the new areas were those on the map by the
      numbers five and six, as well as north of the rail line. Deputy Chief Vawdrey
      said that was correct. Mayor Walker said that was the best they could do.
      Fireworks couldn’t be restricted anymore.

3.0   Council/Manager Reports

3.1   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the Council needed to address opening its
      meetings back to the public and if there was any official action required to do
      that. David Dobbins, City Manager, said that if it was the Council’s direction to
      do that, staff would get that ready for them and come up with a plan.

      Mayor Walker said that he did not think that there was a public health order
      that required the City to not have its meetings open. He said that he did not
      think that there was a public health order that required social distancing. He
      said that the City just had to assume that people were vaccinated and that if

                                                                          Page 7 of 16
      someone was not vaccinated they had to do what was comfortable. He said
      that he knew that everyone on the Council had been vaccinated, had COVID,
      or had COVID and had been vaccinated. He said that the Council would plan
      on their first June meeting to be open to the public.

3.2   Councilmember Roberts said that there was a white truck on SunCrest Drive
      that had been sitting there for a while on the Highland-Draper border. Mr.
      Dobbins said that someone on staff would take care of it.

3.3   Councilmember Roberts asked if there was an update on the sale of the piece
      of property on Deer Ridge. Mr. Dobbins said that there had been no action or
      movement on the property. Councilmember Roberts asked if the property
      was listed on the MLS or it was just listed on commercial websites. Mr.
      Dobbins said that it was. He would have to find out if it was still listed.

      Councilmember Roberts said that something was wrong. He said that they
      were in one of the hottest real estate markets ever and it was not moving. He
      wondered if it was a price issue.

      Mr. Dobbins said that it was a bit complicated because it was one property.
      Most people want to buy a property to subdivide. If the property could be
      subdivided there would be a lot of interest. Because it was one lot it was
      harder to sell.

      Mayor Walker asked if the Council intended to continue to want to sell the
      property, or did they want to take it off the market and continue to let it roll as
      open space.

      Councilmember Roberts said that he had been considering taking it off the
      market and potentially doing something more along the lines of a
      conservation path. Given that it was not selling right now in the hottest real
      estate market, he thought it was worth revisiting potential options.

      Councilmember T. Lowery agreed with Councilmember Roberts. She said that
      she felt like they made a good-faith effort with what the Council would be
      comfortable with and they had not seen movement. She said that she did not
      want to subdivide the property into a bunch of lots. She said that the property
      was used all the time. Draper had seen a huge increase in use in open spaces



                                                                           Page 8 of 16
      and trails. She saw this as an opportunity to further that goal of having
      outdoor access for more residents.

      Mr. Dobbins said that at a minimum, the City could look into putting the rest
      of Deer Ridge into a conservation easement. That process could be done in
      two steps.

      When Mayor Walker asked about the Council’s perspective on taking it off the
      market, there was support to do so. Mr. Dobbins said that because the
      property was put on the market as a formal Council action, he felt like it should
      go on the next agenda to take it off so that it was on the record.

3.4   Councilmember Green asked who was covering for Christina Oliver,
      Community Development Director, now that she was no longer with Draper.
      He said that he had a resident reach out to him about a building permit for
      their home. He wanted to make sure to direct them to the right person.

      Mr. Dobbins said that if Councilmember Green forwards the communication
      to him he’d make sure it got to the right person. Jennifer Jastremsky, the
      Senior Planner, was handling planning issues and the City’s building inspector
      was handling building permits.

3.5   Mayor Walker said that several residents had called him about Stokes Avenue.
      He said that he had seen the City’s speed trailer. A lot of people had informed
      him that there was racing going on. Residents inquired about a stop sign
      where Stokes Avenue intersected with the road that went up to Willow Canyon.
      He asked if staff and the traffic committee could investigate this issue.

3.6   Mayor Walker then responded to the fire situation addressed earlier. He said
      that it was the plan to keep Corner Canyon Road closed. He also wanted to
      bring up trying to bring some water down that road to aid in the event of a
      fire. He said that water was one of the items COVID money could be spent on.
      He did not know if staff had an estimate on the funds Draper would receive,
      he thought it was $3.5 million, but he would not mind trying to contribute
      bringing water to that area so that fire crews could hook into some water lines.

      Regarding fireworks, he had already had residents call and complain, and ask
      if fireworks could be banned. He said that the Council did not have the
      authority to ban them, but that they could restrict them upon reasonable

                                                                          Page 9 of 16
      criteria. He said that he would like the Police Department to be vigilant
      because almost all of the fires would start because of fireworks. He said it was
      pretty dry already. It was as dry as he’d seen it.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if Linda Peterson, Communications Director,
      could do a big public messaging push. Mayor Walker said that he was going
      to do a video with her to talk about fireworks and the safety issues related to
      them and fire.

3.7   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she had one request from a resident about
      the realignment of Galena Park. Mr. Dobbins said that was the plan. It was a
      $4 to 6 million project. He said that staff had just not identified the money to
      be able to do it.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that they wanted to realign the road because
      the park was cut in half. She said that it was an unsafe crossing.

      Mayor Walker said that it would have to be prioritized in the road
      improvement projects. It would be expensive to do. He said that if it were
      done, the way to do it was to put it together as a project but to put in the
      wanted pickleball courts at the same time.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if there were any plans of what the park could
      look like if addressed. She wondered if the Council could look at them in a
      study session and talk about the item in a little more depth. Mr. Dobbins said
      yes.



Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Presentation: Introducing 2021 Miss Draper Royalty and Farewell to 2020 Miss
      Draper Royalty

2.1   Mayor Walker said that this was the opportunity to thank Draper’s outgoing
      Miss Draper and welcome in a new Miss Draper, both of whom were in
      attendance. He noted that they were the first group of people who had been
      in the building since March of 2020. He said that the Council had a small

                                                                        Page 10 of 16
      program to do. He said that he did not get nervous very often, but he was
      nervous that he might mess this up.

      The Mayor began by saying, “Welcome to the 2021 Miss Draper Crowning
      Ceremony and a farewell and thank you for the 2020 Miss Draper royalty.
      Today is May 18, 2021. I am Mayor Walker. I’d like to read some remarks.”

      In the Mayor’s remarks, he said that the Council would like to recognize and
      congratulate the newly selected Ms. Draper 2021 royalty. Welcome to all of
      your families and welcome also to the reigning Ms. Draper 2020 royalty and
      their families. Elle Stoker, Ms. Draper 2020 will share a farewell speech and
      presentation with us. We’d also like to recognize Ms. Draper 2020 First
      Attendant Cece Burriage, and Second Attendant Madison Gastelo and thank
      them for their valuable contributions to the Ms. Draper scholarship program.
      Following this, there will be a crowning of Miss Draper 2021 royalty.

      He said that the Miss Draper program significantly changed a little while ago,
      dramatically for the better. The focus was on the quality of the young woman,
      their talents, and their actual ability to make a difference in the world. The
      women who participate and are selected are based on the merit of the kind of
      person they are and their goals and ambitions. They are tremendous young
      women. He said that he participated one year in reviewing the applicants and
      was astounded at the young women in the community.

2.2   Elle Stoker, Miss Draper 2020, said that she was grateful to be there. She was
      also grateful to the City Council, Mayor, Miss Draper Committee, and Mandy
      Brady. She began her presentation by noting that the title slide featured the
      logo that she designed for the Miss Draper Scholarship Program. The logo had
      been used on Miss Draper Instagram and pictures. She said that she was
      grateful to be able to wear the crown that represented scholarship, service,
      leadership, and poise. She said that Ms. Brady had taught her a lot about what
      it meant to be and embrace herself and have brought out parts of her that she
      didn’t know she had.

      She continued that the next year was going to be all about Ms. Draper's 2021
      royalty and how they would serve the Draper community. She said that
      because of COVID, she had not been able to meet as many people as she
      would have liked or say thank you to. Despite this, the relationships that she
      did build were amazing.

                                                                      Page 11 of 16
When displaying a picture of herself on the day that she was crowned, Ms.
Stoker said that the crown was just the surface of the experience. She shared
that she decided to do Ms. Draper because of her sisters. She said that her
platform was about child custody and abuse allegations with child custody and
ensuring that children get representation. Before auditioning for Ms. Draper,
this platform was central to Ms. Stoker’s life. She continued that when her
mom suggested that she try out for Ms. Draper she didn’t feel like the program
was for her. Her mom explained that the program had been transformed to
focus on how to better oneself and serve the community.

She explained that in her sophomore year of high school when her sisters
were having a hard time, she wrote a bill. The next year she took the bill to
Washington DC on a scholarship through the American Legion Auxiliary and
was able to present it to Mike Pence, Mike Lee, and Mitt Romney. After this,
she founded a non-profit, The Children’s Voice Project. During this time, she
was a part of the National Student Council and was the mayor of the Draper
City Youth Council that allowed her to time the City Council candidate debates.
Through these opportunities, she fell in love with the City of Draper.

During her year as Miss Draper, to further her platform which supported the
Children’s Voice Project, Ms. Stoker started her website, initiated a social
media campaign, paired up with a family law attorney in Chicago who had his
own non-profit, and partnered with the Ballard Center at Brigham Young
University (BYU). She said that the Miss Draper program rocket launched her
dream while giving her the motivation and confidence to go into a room and
talk about her story.

Ms. Stoker also shared that because of COVID the service opportunities for
Miss Draper got cut short. Without events like the parade, Draper Days, and
the tree lighting, they instead launched the Keep Draper Local initiative. The
Miss Draper royalty went around to local Draper businesses and promoted
them. She said that one of the most fun things she did was a tea party for
Canny Kids, a local Draper business. She said that she had talked with
Matthew, Canny Kids owner, who said that statistically there had been more
people going to Canny Kids since Ms. Draper held the tea party.

Ms. Stoker expressed her gratitude for her attendants. She said that when she
had first won and heard what her attendants had been doing she wondered

                                                                 Page 12 of 16
      why she had won Miss Draper. She said that she was excited for the year the
      2021 Miss Draper royalty had ahead of them. It would be an amazing year as
      a result of the scholarships, relationships, etiquette, and service. She
      congratulated them.

2.3   Mayor Walker said that the Council would like to get some photographs with
      Ms. Stoker and her attendants. Following the photographs, he introduced
      Mandy Brandy, Miss Draper Chair, to introduce the new Miss Draper 2021 and
      other Miss Draper royalty.

2.4   Mandy Brady, Chair of Miss Draper, told Ms. Stoker, Burriage, and Gastelo that
      they had served the City well. She said there would be a crowning party
      following the City Council meeting where she would have the opportunity to
      share more of how much she loved them. She thanked members of the
      selection committee for their help, as well as the support of Draper City and
      the Draper Foundation. She said that Lisa Armstrong was going to share a list
      of the Miss Draper sponsors, just as they do at pageants.

2.5   Lisa Armstrong thanked a few local community businesses that have helped
      contribute: Corner Bakery, Gourmandise, Costa Vida, Massage Envy, Harmon’s
      Produce, and Cactus and Tropicals. She said that Flower Pros provided a nice
      discount and tax exemption as well.

      Ms. Brady said that as she read each name, each young woman would come
      up to be crowned.

      Emily Moffat, Miss Draper 2021 Second Attendant, parents are Ryan and
      Lindsay Moffat. Her community service initiative was suicide awareness and
      prevention. She was a Corner Canyon High School Class of 2021 graduate.
      She will pursue a Bachelor of Science in nursing at Brigham Young University
      (BYU) and was enrolled for the coming fall. Her scholastic honors included a
      3.9 GPA, a National Honor Society member, making the honor roll the past
      four years, and completion of five college concurrent enrollment classes and
      seven honors classes. Her leadership roles included Corner Canyon High
      School Varsity Women’s Lacrosse Team Captain and member of Draper’s
      Youth Council.

      Kiara D’Amico, Miss Draper 2021 First Attendant, parents are Debbie and Dino
      D’Amico. Her community service initiative was a chronic illness and disability

                                                                      Page 13 of 16
      care package and community awareness program. She achieved an associate
      degree from Utah State University (USU) undergraduate in Logan, Utah. She’s
      majoring in Biology, Ecology and Biodiversity and has a minor in
      Environmental Law and Policy, and a minor in Chemistry. Her scholastic
      honors included being her high school valedictorian; a 4.0 GPA; honors
      courses in science, math, social studies, English, and many more. She was also
      a Utah State University (USU) Outstanding Honors Student. Her leadership
      roles included being the president and founder of the Utah State University
      Student Affairs (USUSA) Service Animal Club Communications and Relations
      Leadership Team, Peer Court Co-President, Fundraising Chairman for Golden
      Keller Service Dogs, and cheerleader captain.

      Grace Mead, Miss Draper 2021, is the daughter of Eric and Stephanie Mead.
      Her service initiative is “Bright Futures Begin with STEM Education.” She will be
      a senior at Corner Canyon High School. Her scholastic honors include being a
      4.0 GPA student while taking college-level Chinese, AP Language Arts, and AP
      Biology.    She also received first and second-place awards for oral
      presentations at BYU’s Chinese Language Competition. She also was a Family
      and Career Leaders of America State Finalist. Her leadership roles include
      serving as the ambassador for the Governor’s Office of Economic
      Development, Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Action
      Center, Hope Squad, officer for Family Career Community Leaders of America
      (FCCLA), and a member of the Draper City Youth Council.

      Ms. Brady said that Miss Draper was so proud of these young women and
      thanked the community, Council, and Draper Foundation for their support.
      Ms. Brady was given some flowers and a facial by the girls and the outgoing
      royalty for all of her efforts.

3.0   Public Comments

3.1   Mayor Walker opened the public comment. When no one came forward he
      closed the period for public comment.

4.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval and Consent to Assignment of Rights and Obligations under BG
         Vista Station, LC Development Agreements




                                                                        Page 14 of 16
4.1   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve                the   Consent   Items.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1490 and Ordinance #1491, amending the Draper
      City Land Use map from Neighborhood Commercial to Residential High
      Density, and amending the Draper City Zoning map from A5 (Agricultural) to
      RM2 (Multiple Family Residential) on approximately 9.81 acres. The property
      is located at approximately 12197 S. 300 East.

5.1   Mayor Walker said that the applicant asked earlier in the afternoon that the
      Council continue the item to the next scheduled meeting on June 1, 2021. The
      reason for continuing the item was that they wanted to work out a
      development agreement for the Council to consider that would reduce the
      density of the project to between 50 and 60 single-family, detached residential
      units. They were trying to solidify what they could do within the zone. Because
      there was not a zone that specifically addressed what the developer wanted to
      do, a development agreement was the best vehicle for them to ensure to the
      Council and public what will happen. The continuance was requested so that
      the Council could consider this development agreement with the zone change
      and its associated public hearing so that the public had an informed ability to
      make comments and understand what was proposed.

5.2   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to continue Ordinance #1490 and
      Ordinance #1491 to the June 1, 2021, City Council Meeting. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

5.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Recess to a Draper City Redevelopment Agency Meeting.

6.1   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to recess to a Draper City Redevelopment
      Agency Meeting. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

6.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

                                                                       Page 15 of 16
7.0   Adjournment

7.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.            Councilmember
      Lowery seconded the motion.

7.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:52 p.m.




                                                                     Page 16 of 16
