                                Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                        March 12, 2021

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: March 25, 2021

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated Hedgerow Text Amendment
         Application No.: TEXTMAP-0029-2021
         Applicant:        Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:          City Wide
         Request:          Request for approval of a Text Amendment in order to modify
                           Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-23-110 for the
                           purpose of amending regulations pertaining to the use of
                           hedgerows and other landscaping elements within land use
                           buffers.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This City initiated application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment (Exhibit B) for
the purpose of amending regulations pertaining to the use of hedgerows and other
landscaping elements within land use buffers.

This application is being brought forward in response to the City Council’s concerns
regarding the recent changes made to land use buffers by ordinance #1474 adopted
February 2, 2021 (Exhibit C). The concerns expressed centered on the dissimilarities
between installing a 5’ hedgerow or installing an 8’ solid, sight obscuring fence between
residential and commercial development. Currently DCMC allows for either when
requesting reductions in the width of a land use buffer from the Planning Commission.




City Initiated Hedgerow                                          App. # TEXTMAP-0029-2021
Text Amendment                                  1
ANALYSIS

Text Amendments. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative
copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are
indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-23-110 Land Use Buffers:
Proposed text changes remove hedgerows as a potential criterion for consideration by the
Planning Commission when approving deviations to landscape buffer requirements.
Additional proposed changes to the text clarify that the landscaping quantity and quality
may not be reduced or impacted as a result of an approved reduction in the width of a land
use buffer.

Criteria For Approval. A Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion
of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a
recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the
following factors found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

         2. Text Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                  of the city's general plan;
              b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                  zoning ordinance;
              c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                  and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
              d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                  of this title or the general plan;
              e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                  and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                  represents an overall community benefit; and
              f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                  professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.



City Initiated Hedgerow                                              App. # TEXTMAP-0029-2021
Text Amendment                                   2
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City
ordinances. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.       The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                  the city's general plan;
         2.       The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                  zoning ordinance;
         3.       The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                  and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
         4.       The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                  part of this title or the general plan;
         5.       The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                  determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                  represents an overall community benefit; and
         6.       The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                  practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.       The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                  policies of the city's general plan;



City Initiated Hedgerow                                               App. # TEXTMAP-0029-2021
Text Amendment                                    3
         2.       The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements
                  of the zoning ordinance;
         3.       The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
                  request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
                  zoning ordinance;
         4.       The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part
                  of this title or the general plan;
         5.       The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                  determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does
                  not represent an overall community benefit; and
         6.       The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
                  professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
Hedgerow Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0029-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 12, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City
Initiated Hedgerow Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0029-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 12, 2021, and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
Hedgerow Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0029-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 12, 2021.




City Initiated Hedgerow                                            App. # TEXTMAP-0029-2021
Text Amendment                                   4
                                            EXHIBIT A
                                       DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

         1.          No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

         1.          No additional comments received.

Building Division Review.

         1.          No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

         1.          No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

         1.          No additional comments received.




Ordinance No. 1474                                2                  Land Use Buffer
                                                                    Text Amendment
                                          EXHIBIT B
                                     LESISLATIVE DRAFT


9-23-110: LAND USE BUFFERS:
…
 C. Reductions:
    1. The zoning administrator or designee may reduce land use buffer requirements
based on the character of specific uses, building orientations, topographic features, or
other unique characteristics of adjoining uses. A reduced buffer shall consist of a
minimum ten foot (10') wide landscape buffer and an eight foot (8') tall, solid, sight
obscuring fence in compliance with all other specifications of 9-23-110(A)(5). In
approving reductions under this section the zoning administrator shall not reduce the
tree and plant requirements of subsections 9-23-110 (A)(3) and (4).
    2. The planning commission may approve additional deviations to
landscape buffer requirements if all of the following criteria are met:
     a. Physical site features preclude strict compliance. In this case an alternative
landscaping scheme shall be provided which meets or exceeds the intent of the code;
      b. Additional landscaping equal to the amount of the reduction from the buffer
size requirements of 9-23-110(A)(1) and (2) shall be added to the overall site to
compensate for any approved reduction in buffer area widths, landscaping upequal to or
exceeding the amount of trees required for the original buffer widthproportional
standards of 9-23-110(A)(3) and (4) shall be required in both the reduced buffer area
and the area(s) of the overall site where the compensatory landscaping is provided;
      c. An eight foot (8') tall, solid, sight obscuring fence or a hedgerow at least five
feet (5') tall at maturity has been is provided. If a fence is utilized it shall be in
compliance with all other specifications of 9-23-110(A)(5); and
        d. In no case shall a landscape buffer be less than five feet (5') in width.




Ordinance No. 1474                             3                                    Land Use Buffer
                                                                                   Text Amendment
   EXHIBIT C
ORDINANCE #1474
