                            Development Review Committee
                                 1020 East Pioneer Road
                                   Draper, UT 84020
                                        June 29, 2021

To:            Draper City Planning Commission
               Business Date: July 8, 2021

From:          Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Summit Commerce Center– Site Plan Request
        Application No.: SPR-0014-2021
        Applicant:        Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC
                          and Exeter Draper Land, LLC
        Project Location: 77 W. Golden Harvest Rd. / 13004 S. Pony Express Rd.
        Current Zoning: M1 (Light Manufacturing) Zone
        Acreage:          26.937 Acres (Approximately 1,173,376 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Site Plan in the M1 zone regarding
                          construction of an industrial building. The proposed industrial
                          building will be approximately 253,825 ft2 in size and be utilized
                          half for light manufacturing and half for warehousing.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 26.937 acres
located on the east side of Pony Express Rd. and south of Golden Harvest Rd., at
approximately 77 W. Golden Harvest Rd. / 13004 S. Pony Express Rd. (Exhibit B). The
applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the
currently vacant site with an industrial building.

This property is subject to a development agreement between Exeter Draper Land, LLC and
the City. The development agreement was entered into in April 2020 and land use map and
zoning map amendments for the property were also approved at that time. The property
comprises all of the original Greenfield Farms Ph 1 subdivision plat, excepting a small piece
that is part of the adjacent Lone Peak Parkway. Greenfield Farms was recorded in 1976 and



Summit Commerce Center                                               App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                              1
included 22 single-family lots. The internal public roadways of Wheatfield Circle and
Wheatfield Way from the Greenfield Farms Ph 1 Subdivision were vacated by the City
Council in December 2020. The individual homes were then removed from the properties
and the lots in the Greenfield Farms Ph 1 Subdivision were consolidated and recorded as
the single lot Summit Commerce Center Subdivision (Exhibit J) in April 2021.

ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Business / Light
Manufacturing land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the M1 zoning classification, supporting light
manufacturing, warehousing, retail, and other service uses on the property (Exhibit D).
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the M1
zone is to “to provide areas for uses involving processing and assembly of manufactured goods,
warehousing, and material storage. Uses which generate excessive noise, vibration, odor, dust,
and fumes are excluded from this zone.” On the southeast, the property is abutted by RA1
(Residential, 40,000 ft2 minimum lot size) zoning and on the southwest by the DC
(Destination Commercial) zone. To the west the property is abutted by a canal and Rocky
Mountain Power corridor that are zoned RA2 (Residential, 20,000 ft2 minimum lot size). The
CBP (Business/ Manufacturing Park) zone is located to the north across Golden Harvest
Road, and Pony Express Road and the I-15 interstate highway are located to the East.




Summit Commerce Center                                               App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                             2
Site Plan Layout. The applicant is proposing to construct a new industrial building on the
Western portion of the lot (Exhibit E). Future plans to build a second building on this same
site on the eastern portion of the lot were identified and contemplated at the time of the
development agreement and zoning change. A separate application for an amended site
plan would be required to be submitted for review of that building in the future, however
some aspects of this site plan layout address the future potential needs for that building.
The building that is the subject of this application would be approximately 253,825 ft2 in
size and contain numerous freight shipping and receiving docks on the east and west sides
of the building. The main entrances would be located to the north and south. Accesses to
the property would come from both Golden Harvest Road and Pony Express Road. The
building layout allows for the use of the building by either a single tenant or multiple
tenants. Parking for employees and visitors is provided on both the north and the south of
the building near the main pedestrian entry doors. Site amenities including picnic tables
and bike racks that are provided near parking and entrance areas.

Architecture. The architectural elevations (Exhibit G) and renderings (Exhibit H) show a tilt
up style concrete building. Due to the nature of the construction and the layout of the
shipping and receiving docks, most concrete panels on the east and west façade will
measure twenty-seven (27) feet wide, which poses some difficulty in achieving strict
compliance with ordinance standards for horizontal and vertical articulation of the façade
and roofline.

The applicant has submitted requests for deviation from DCMC Subsections 9-22-040(C)(1),
9-22-040(C)(2), and 9-22-040(D)(2) in response to the intended design of the structure
(Exhibit L).

   9-22-040: Building Design:
   C. Facade Articulation: Buildings designed with completely flat facades and monotone color
   schemes are not permitted. All buildings shall demonstrate articulation of all facades.
   1. Horizontal or vertical facade variations shall occur at least every thirty feet (30') or along
   a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the horizontal length of buildings with facades one
   hundred feet (100') or greater. This shall be accomplished by using methods such as:
   a. Variation in the surface plane that may include pop outs, bays, and recesses;
   b. Variation in the surface pattern such as arches, banding, and paneling; or
   c. Distinguished treatment of windows, doors, and eaves that may include molding or
   framing.
   2. Buildings with facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in total length shall have at
   least one significant facade variation from the primary wall plane whose depth is at least five
   feet (5') and whose width is at least twenty feet (20'). There shall be no uninterrupted facades
   one hundred feet (100') or greater in length.
   D. Height And Roofline: All buildings shall demonstrate an appropriate roof height that is
   compatible with the building's location, and vary rooflines in order to add architectural



Summit Commerce Center                                                   App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                                3
   interest and avoid the appearance or sense of monotonous roofline expanses. All buildings
   shall:
   1. Demonstrate appropriate roof height for the location based on zoning regulations and
   the height of buildings within the immediate area;
   2. Provide roofline and parapet variations where there are long, continuous, and
   undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50') or greater;
   3. Use similar materials and colors on the back of false fronts, parapets, cornices, or other
   parts of the building which extend beyond the roofline or main building so that the building
   appears cohesive from all views; and
   4. Provide for screening of mechanical equipment and systems that need to be mounted on
   the roof. Any minimal portion of these pieces of equipment that may not be fully shielded
   shall be painted a color which is compatible with the roofing or parapet materials.

The architecture of the building does provide vertical articulation at the roofline between
pairs of tilt up panels. Instead of the maximum fifty feet (50’) specified in ordinance for
roofline articulations, the east and west facades have articulations at intervals of fifty-four
feet (54’), with the initial interval on each end of the façade extending to sixty and one half
feet (60.5’). On the north and south elevations there are no typical intervals in roofline
articulation, with the shortest length between articulations being about thirty feet (30’) and
the longest being one-hundred forty-one feet (141’). Parapet height variations range
between two feet (2’) and four feet (4’). Additional horizontal variations or projections from
the main wall planes between four feet (4’) and five feet (5’) occur near the corner
entrances.

The applicant is also requesting a deviation from DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(5) with respects
to the required variation in materials utilized along the base of the tilt up concrete (Exhibit
L) preferring to instead provide a distinctive change in color at the base rather than face
portions of the concrete panel base with a different exterior material.

   9-22-040: Building Design
   F. Materials: Quality long lasting materials shall be required for all buildings in order to
   contribute to the aesthetics of the community over the long term. Permanence in design and
   construction will add to the overall value and sustainability of the community.
   1. Minimum Colors: A minimum of three (3) colors per elevation shall be required.
   2. Color Utilization: Color utilization should be sensitive to existing development within the
   vicinity and the natural landscape in which the project is situated.
   3. Primary Materials: Brick, stone, ceramic tile, wood or concrete fiber composite siding,
   concrete masonry units (CMU), metal composite material, and architectural precast concrete
   are acceptable primary materials. CMU must be colored and feature decorative or
   architectural finishes such as honed, scored, offset or split face. Gray CMU block is not an
   acceptable finished building material and shall not be permitted on any finished building
   elevation with the exception of minimal foundation exposure. The following guidelines shall
   apply when designing a commercial or industrial building:



Summit Commerce Center                                                 App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                              4
   a. Each building face shall have a minimum of two (2) primary materials. At least seventy
   five percent (75%) of each building's finished face shall be in primary materials.
   b. When brick is used as a primary material, it may be utilized up to one hundred percent
   (100%) of the facade material, in which case, no secondary primary material will be required.
   c. Doors, glass and roofing materials shall not be included in the calculations of primary
   and secondary materials.
   4. Secondary Materials: Secondary materials may include stucco; EIFS, including specialty
   finishes; metal, excluding corrugated sheet metal; exposed concrete; vinyl; shake shingles or
   wood siding. Materials such as awnings, wood timbers and other similar features will be
   considered accent and not figured into the totals of secondary materials.
   5. Tilt-Up Concrete: Exposed tilt-up concrete may be used as a primary material on
   buildings located in all manufacturing zones and in the CBP zoning classification. Some
   variation in materials along the base and near the entrances of concrete tilt-ups is required.

Architectural specialty finishes are planned for the concrete panels near the main
entrances. Main entrances include significant fenestration and utilize brake metal as a
secondary material on the façade. The building facades (excluding windows and doors) are
comprised of approximately 91.8% primary materials and 8.2% secondary materials which
exceeds the 75% minimum required percentage of primary materials by more than 10%.
Windows and doors make up approximately 12.8% of the gross area of all façades.

Architectural Design Standards Modification. Chapter 22 of the DCMC makes provisions for
the Planning Commission to authorize deviations to strict compliance with the terms of the
Code regarding development design standards. DCMC Section 9-22-030 states that the
Planning Commission may approve site plans that deviate from the requirements of the
design standards within Chapter 22 of the DCMC based on making certain required
findings in whole. Per DCMC Section 9-22-030(b), the Planning Commission shall find an
application complies with at least three of the following criteria:

       1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
          excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
       2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
          area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
       3. The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to
          a transportation facility.
       4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as
          creative design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass
          programs.
       5. The project is an accredited LEED development.
       6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
          master plan or ordinance.
       7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases
          which involve redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor



Summit Commerce Center                                                 App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                              5
           structures added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased
           project.
       8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten
           percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting
           beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
       9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
           modern, which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in
           subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.
       10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
           greater than the minimum required amount.

The applicant’s request for building design deviations from DCMC Chapter 9-22 is included
as Exhibit L in this report. Specifically the applicant mentions criteria 1, 2, 6, and 10 as being
applicable to their request. In the staff review it has been determined that the plan to add
bike racks and pedestrian level amenities such as picnic areas to both the north and south
entrances could be considered as providing additional amenities in excess of minimum
requirements. Currently, additional landscaping and open space equal to approximately
47% of the site is proposed, well in excess of the 30% necessary for compliance with
criterion 2 when requesting a deviation. However, this calculation includes landscaping of
the area where future development may occur and while the current plans met the
standard for a deviation request, with subsequent development it is likely that the overall
landscaping percentage of the site would dip below 30%. Staff believes that criterion 6 is
met with respects to the design as proposed as the purpose of the design standards
chapter is to facilitate exceptional design in the built environment and preserve the quality
of life within Draper City. Requiring strict compliance with horizontal articulation standards
would likely impact the functionality of the shipping and receiving docks and be of little to
no benefit to the aesthetics of the site. Vertical articulations are included at the roofline
which meet the intent of design criteria to provide variety, even if they do not strictly
comply with the maximum dimensions between articulations. Staff has additionally verified
that compliance with criterion 10 is met in that the amount of primary materials utilized on
the all façades exceeds the minimum required amount by more than 10%.

Circulation. The site plan (Exhibit E) provides adequate traffic circulation for both passenger
vehicles and large freight vehicles as well as emergency access to all sides of the building.
Passenger vehicle parking is visually separated from main site thoroughfares through the
use of landscaping and landscaping islands. Pedestrian access is provided from Golden
Harvest Road to the main entry on the north, however, due to the size and industrial
nature of the building this access is likely to be utilized only marginally. A Traffic Impact
Study was conducted for the site and the results of that study are attached (Exhibit K).

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The landscaping plans (Exhibit F) have been reviewed and
have been determined to be in compliance with minimum ordinance requirements. The
area where future development potential exists is proposed to be landscaped with lawn



Summit Commerce Center                                                  App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                               6
until revised development plans are proposed and approved. Currently the proposed plans
indicate that 47% of the overall site will be landscaped. With future development this
amount will be reduced, however future development will not be allowed to reduce the
amount below the minimum 20% that is required by ordinance and the development
agreement. The plans meet the requirements for perimeter landscaping as well as for the
screening of loading and parking areas. Along the southeast property boundary adjacent to
the RA1 zoned area, the applicant is proposing to reduce the land use buffer from thirty
feet (30’) to fifteen feet (15’) and construct an eight foot (8’) tall steel reinforced
polyethylene screening fence. This proposal complies with ordinances in effect at the time
the development agreement for this project was entered into which would permit a
reduction in the width of the land use buffer to as little as ten feet (10’).

Parking. According to the site plan (Exhibit E), there will be 209 parking stalls provided. This
is within the 10% natural adjustment range of the proposed use of the building as half (1/2)
light manufacturing and half (1/2) warehouse. An additional 18 dedicated spaces for semi-
trailer parking are designated on the plan, though not required by ordinance. Future
tenants parking requirements would be re-evaluated at the time of the building permit for
tenant improvements and the business license application. There may be some fluctuation
between the speculative usage types in the building, however; future uses would be
individually evaluated so as to ensure that the available parking is not exceeded.

Lighting. The lighting plan (Exhibit I) has been found to comply with the intent of ordinance
requirements. Individual areas of the property that will be illuminated have lighting that
complies with maximum and average illumination rates. Due to a large portion of the site
being unilluminated, the calculation of the overall ratio between maximum and average
illumination unintentionally becomes skewed. Adding unnecessary lighting to these areas
prior to potential future development is contrary to the intent of the ordinance. Exterior
lighting will include an astronomical clock that will turn off the lights during non-
operational hours so as to comply with the after-hours requirements of ordinance.

Previous Conditions of Approval. The City Council placed the following comments and
conditions of approval on the Development Agreement on April 7, 2020:

       1. Planning Review
             a. The Development Agreement alters the permitted and conditional uses
                 typically granted to the M1 zoning district. Those changes add a higher
                 level of restriction/allowance typically afforded the M1 zone aside from
                 “Retail, general” which it sets as a permitted use rather than the M1
                 standard of conditional use. The changes are consistent with the general
                 area and add a greater level of predictability regarding how it will be used
                 and redeveloped. All other zoning regulations and standards remain
                 consistent with DCMC and the M1 zone.




Summit Commerce Center                                                App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                              7
       2. Engineering/Public Works Review
             a. Traffic Impact Study (TIS) is required for the site.
             b. In the development agreement, section 8, Upsizing/Reimbursements to
                Master Developer; the city will not pay “in advance” for infrastructure
                upsizing. The city requires and will execute a mutually acceptable
                reimbursement agreement prior to the installation of any upsizing, but
                will not compensate Master Developer until completion and acceptance
                of the work for actual upsizing costs.
             c. Proposed site layout / master plan shows several access points onto
                public right-of-way that do not comply with the city’s access management
                requirements. Engineering has provided some redline comments on a
                proposed site layout for your consideration.
             d. Existing drinking water infrastructure surrounding the proposed site may
                need to be upsized depending on an analysis of the proposed
                development demands. For example, the drinking waterline diameter in
                portions of Golden Harvest Rd is six inches and would not provide
                adequate fire flow for some M1 uses.

       3. Fire Review
              a. The Draper City Fire Department has reviewed the proposed Master
                 Development Agreement and at this time has no concerns. A more in
                 depth review will be done during the site plan and building permit
                 phases.

       4. Legal Review
             a. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City
                 ordinances.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request is
found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:

       E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site
           plan:
           1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
              approved.
           2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
              not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
              building materials.
           3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
              general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
           4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
              development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.



Summit Commerce Center                                                     App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                                 8
           5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
              Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage,
              and utilities concerns.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan submission. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC and Simon
Associates LLC., in working with the Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, have
completed their reviews of the geotechnical and geologic hazards report submitted as a
part of the Site Plan. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

       1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,



Summit Commerce Center                                                     App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                                 9
            Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
            and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
       2.   That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
            development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
       3.   That the building and site be constructed in substantial compliance with the
            plans submitted and approved as part of this amended site plan review, and in
            accordance with any approved deviations from standards.
       4.   Revised plans be submitted addressing to the satisfaction of the City Engineer,
            the outstanding comments and redlines provided by the City Engineer.
       5.   That no signage is approved with the site plan. All signage is required to meet
            the requirements of Chapter 9-26 and obtain applicable sign permits through
            the appropriate City process.

Deviation Request from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(1) – Horizontal and Vertical
Façade Articulation.
The findings for approval of a deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(1) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the requirement for horizontal or vertical façade
variations every thirty feet (30') or along a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the horizontal
length of building along its face is as follows:

       1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
          excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
       2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
          area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
       3. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
          master plan or ordinance.
       4. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
          greater than the minimum required amount.

The findings for denial of a deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(1) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the requirement for horizontal or vertical façade
variations every thirty feet (30') or along a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the horizontal
length of building along its face is as follows:

       1. The project does not contain amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity
          in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
       2. The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
          applicable master plan or ordinance.

Deviation Request from DCMC Subsections 9-22-040(C)(2) – Significant Horizontal
Façade Articulation
The findings for approval of a deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(2) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the requirements for a minimum horizontal façade



Summit Commerce Center                                               App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                             10
variation of five feet (5’) by twenty feet (20’) and which has segments of uninterrupted
façade greater than one-hundred feet (100’) in length along its face is as follows:

       1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
          excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
       2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
          area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
       3. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
          master plan or ordinance.
       4. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
          greater than the minimum required amount.

The findings for denial of a deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(2) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the requirements for a minimum horizontal façade
variation of five feet (5’) by twenty feet (20’) and which has segments of uninterrupted
façade greater than one-hundred feet (100’) in length along its face is as follows:

       1. The project does not contain amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity
          in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
       2. The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
          applicable master plan or ordinance.

Deviation Request from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(D)(2) – Roofline and Parapet
Variations
The findings for approval of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(D) Height and
Roofline to allow for a building that does not strictly comply with the requirements for
roofline and parapet variations is as follows:

       1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
          excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
       2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
          area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
       3. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
          master plan or ordinance.
       4. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
          greater than the minimum required amount.

The findings for denial of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(D) Height and
Roofline to allow for a building that does not strictly comply with the requirements for
roofline and parapet variations is as follows:

       1. The project does not contain amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity
          in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.



Summit Commerce Center                                               App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                             11
       2. The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
          applicable master plan or ordinance.



Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(5) – Materials
The findings for approval of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(F) Materials to
allow for a building that does not comply with the requirement for a variation in materials
at the base of tilt up panels is as follows:

       1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
          excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
       2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
          area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
       3. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
          master plan or ordinance.
       4. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
          greater than the minimum required amount.

The findings for denial of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(F) Materials for a
building that does not comply with the requirement for a variation in materials at the base
of tilt up panels is as follows:

      1.   The project does not contain amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity
           in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
      2.   The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
           applicable master plan or ordinance.

Site Plan
The findings for approval of the site plan are as follows:

       1. The site plan application represents a complete development plan for the overall
          site.
       2. The proposed site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title,
          including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
          landscaping, and building materials.
       3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
          general plan and the purpose of the M1 zoning district in which the site is
          located.
       4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
          development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
       5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found
          in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water
          drainage, and utilities concerns.



Summit Commerce Center                                              App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                             12
The findings for denial of the site plan are as follows:

       1. The proposed site plan does not conform to all applicable standards set forth in
          this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
          parking, landscaping, and building materials.
       2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives
          of the general plan and the purpose of the M1 zoning district in which the site is
          located.
       3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the
          subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
       4. The proposed development plans do not comply with the one or more of the
          engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code,
          including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.



MODEL MOTIONS
Deviation from Horizontal and Vertical Façade Articulation
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation request from
horizontal and vertical façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing
ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation request from
horizontal and vertical façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing
ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

       1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation request from horizontal and
vertical façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build
Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center, application
SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021.

Deviation from Significant Horizontal Façade Articulation
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation request from
significant horizonal façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO
Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce




Summit Commerce Center                                               App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                              13
Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation request from
significant horizontal façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO
Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

       1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation request from significant
horizontal façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO
Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
June 29, 2021.



Deviation from Roofline and Parapet Variations
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation request from roofline
and parapet variations, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build
Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center, application
SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated June 29, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation request from
roofline and parapet variations, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO
Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

       1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation request from roofline and
parapet variations, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build
Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center, application
SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021.

Deviation from Materials
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation from materials
variation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC



Summit Commerce Center                                             App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                            14
and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center, application SPR-0014-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 29,
2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation from
materials variation, as requested by Mark McKee, as representing ARCO Design/Build
Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center, application
SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated June 29, 2021and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

       1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation from materials variation, as
requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter
Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on
the findings listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021.



Site Plan
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested by Mark
McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for
the Summit Commerce Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested
by Mark McKee, as representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper
Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

       1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan, as requested by Mark
McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for
the Summit Commerce Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings listed in
the Staff Report dated June 29, 2021.




Summit Commerce Center                                              App. # SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                            15
                 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                       Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                               Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky


B nen
   • M axf"1e Id
                       DN:cn:BrienMa xfield, o=Dra perCity,                                             DN:c-us,
                       o,,PW-Engineedng,
                       email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov,c=US            Jennifer Jastremsky_ CN-llennifer Jasiremsky
                                                                                                        ���� n�� �i��::�;gi:�r:���·
                                                                                                              if   a



                       Date: 2021.06.30 15:20:28-06'00'
                                                                                                        Date: 2021.06.30 10:40:59-06'00'



Draper City Public Works Department                                        Draper City Planning Division




 Don B UC k I e Y                                                          M ke 8 a r ke r
                    Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                    ON: C-US, E-clon.buckley@draper.ut.us,                                             Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                    O=0raper City Fire Deparlment, OU=Fire                     ·1                      Date: 2021.06.30 1 1 :08:03 -06'00'
                    Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
-------             Oatt..!8!1.00.9019.SU'i'0000


Draper City Fire Department                                                Draper City Legal Counsel


                       Digitally signed by Keith Collier


Ke .It h C O 11·I er
                       DN:C,US,
                       E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov, O=Draper
                       City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith Collier
                       Date: 2021.06.30 12:11:29-06'00'



Draper City Building Division




Summit Commerce Center                                                                                  App.# SPR-0014-2021
Site Plan Request                                                     16
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       Plans Satisfy Requirements
       General
       1. The city has a contract to investigate the Golden Harvest structural section to
          determine impacts from proposed trucking traffic. Results of the study will be
          provided when complete. The city has not yet received the report. Results will be
          forwarded as soon as the city receives the report.

       2. Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior
          to construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering
          Division and is required prior to Building Permit issuance. Informational
          comment. No action required prior to site plan approval.

       3. Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit
          obtained through the Engineering Division. Informational comment. No action
          required prior to site plan approval.

       Grading and Drainage
       4. The existing tail water ditch was restored to the plans as a note – rather than
          updating the plan set. The restoration of the ditch on the plans significantly
          impacts the grading required for the south access onto Pony Express to the
          detention basin in the southwest corner of the site. By adding the ditch as just a
          note, the impacts to the grading is not identified. Updating the surface, grading
          and drainage plan, and any landscaping plans will be required to be submitted,
          reviewed, and approved prior to issuing the Land Disturbance Permit.

       5. The 24-inch ADS pipe, shown as piping the tail water ditch near the south access
          onto Pony Express (see sheet C3.2) will be a city facility. Therefore, RCP is
          required.

       6. Verification of the return of the tail water from the irrigation of the two
          residences along the tail water ditch is required. Piping the ditch along the
          residences may impact the tail water flow path.
       Utilities and Street
       7. Provide plan and profile of public street (Pony Express) improvements. Frontage
          improvements on Pony Express will be required for the site plan approval for
          building 1.

       8. Private access spacing along Golden Harvest is 200’ per the Draper City Master
          Transportation Plan, both proposed accesses are too close. Align entrances or
          provide traffic and safety analysis for offset to be reviewed by City Engineer.
          Engineering received the write-up.

       9. Fire loop does not show a connection to the city’s distribution system. Redline
          was provided in second review. It appears the issue has not been resolved in the
          third review.



Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

       1. Geotechnical Submittal Complete



GIS Division Review.

       1. Assigned address for the proposed buildings are as follows:
          a. Building 1 – 13004 S. Pony Express Road
          b. Building 2 – 13012 S. Pony Express Road
       2. Label pages with assigned addresses.
       3. Label building addresses on site plans

Fire Department Review

       1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
          twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of
          thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be, designed
          and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The
          surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
          have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a
          maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be, checked prior to building permits
          being issued.


       2. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
          Department Access to the site shall be, installed and APPROVED by the Fire
          Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during
   the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access
   becomes non- compliant any and all permits could be revoked.

3. Hydrants Required. Building 1 is shown at 125,700 square feet and there are no
   architectural drawings to show the type of construction the building will be. So
   the following was based on a type IIB building. Fire Flow will be 7500gpm but
   reduced by 50% for fire sprinklers to a fire flow of 3750gpm. With the reduction
   this building will require four (4) fire hydrants there are only two shown.

   Building 2 is shown at 253,984 square feet and there are no architectural drawings
   to show the type of construction the building will be. So the following was based on
   a type IIB building. Fire Flow will be 8000gpm but reduced by 50% for fire sprinklers
   to a fire flow of 4000gpm. With the reduction this building will require four (4) fire
   hydrants there are four (4) shown.

4. No combustible construction shall be, allowed prior to hydrant installation and
   testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operations prior to any
   combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.

5. Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler
   shop drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
   don.buckley@draperutah.gov. A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut
   sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
   or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There nees to be a hydrant within 100 feet
   of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL FIRE
   PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO
   THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

6. Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to
   be sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at
   don.buckley@draperutah.gov. A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut
   sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
   or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY
   REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

7. Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted
   to exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
   exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top
   of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor. See
   attached information form.
8. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
   address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
   property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.

9. Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits
   being, issued. All lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                  DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                              C




                                                                                  PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                  SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                           13012 South Pony Express Road,
                                                                                                                                 Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                              B


                                                                                  SEAL:




                                                                                                             6/9/2021




                                                                                  SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                   NO.       DATE                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           11/12/2020                                   Issued for Permit
                                                                                    1      04/21/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    2      06/09/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions




                                                                                  PROJECT NO.:                                                      DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                  20-016SP                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                  SHEET TITLE:

                                                                              A
                                                                                          Overall Site Plan
                                       ∆
Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                  These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                  registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                  reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                  SHEET NO.:




                                                                                          C1.0
                                                                                                   9 June, 2021
                                 COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2   1
                                                          ∆
                                                                                      DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                  C




                                                                                      PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                         SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                  13012 South Pony Express Road,
                                                                                                                                        Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                  B


                                                                                      SEAL:


                                                                                                                           FESS ION
                                                                                                                        PRO        AL
                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                               RE                                         E




                                                                                                          TE




                                                                                                                                                          NG
                                                                                                                    6/9/2021




                                                                                                        IS




                                                                                                                                                             I NE
                                                                                                    REG




                                                                                                                                                                 ER
                                                                                                                                                         H
                                                                                                            TA




                                                                                                       S
                                                                                                                                        T                 A
                                                                                                                     TE
                                                                                                                                   OF U




                                                                                      SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                       NO.       DATE                                           DESCRIPTION
                                                                                               11/12/2020                                      Issued for Permit
                                                                                        1      04/21/2021                                    Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                        2      06/09/2021                                    Site Permit Revisions




                                                                                      PROJECT NO.:                                                         DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                      20-016SP                                                                     DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                      SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                  A
                                                                                        Building #2 Site Plan
Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                      These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                      registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                      reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                      SHEET NO.:




                                                                                              C1.1
                                                                                                          9 June, 2021
                                 COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO       5   4   3   2   1
                                                                                  DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                              C




                                                                                  PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                     SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                              13012 South Pony Express Road,
                                                                                                                                    Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                              B


                                                                                  SEAL:


                                                                                                                       FESS ION
                                                                                                                    PRO        AL
                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                           RE                                         E




                                                                                                      TE




                                                                                                                                                      NG
                                                                                                                6/9/2021




                                                                                                    IS




                                                                                                                                                         I NE
                                                                                                REG




                                                                                                                                                             ER
                                                                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                        TA




                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                    T                 A
                                                                                                                 TE
                                                                                                                               OF U




                                                                                  SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                   NO.       DATE                                           DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           11/12/2020                                      Issued for Permit
                                                                                    1      04/21/2021                                    Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    2      06/09/2021                                    Site Permit Revisions




                                                                                  PROJECT NO.:                                                         DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                  20-016SP                                                                     DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                  SHEET TITLE:

                                                                              A
                                                                                    Building #2 Site Plan
Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                  These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                  registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                  reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                  SHEET NO.:




                                                                                          C1.2
                                                                                                      9 June, 2021
                                 COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2   1
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                              DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                          C




                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                              SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13012 South Pony Express Road,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                          B


                                                                                                                                                                                              SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   06/04/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                              SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                               NO.       DATE                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                       11/12/2020                                   Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                1      04/21/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                2      06/09/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 2 DWGS\20-016LS.dwg, 6/9/2021 1:51:39 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT NO.:                                                      DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                              20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Building 2 Overall
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Landscape Plan
                                                                                   Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                              These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                              registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                              reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                            R



                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET NO.:



                                                                                                                                                             Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                               Call before you dig.                    L1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               9 June, 2021
                                                                                                                    COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                           DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13012 South Pony Express Road,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                       B


                                                                                                                                                                                           SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  06/04/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                           SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                            NO.       DATE                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                    11/12/2020                                   Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                             1      04/21/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                             2      06/04/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 2 DWGS\20-016LS.dwg, 6/4/2021 12:16:20 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT NO.:                                                      DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                           20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                       A
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Building 2 North
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Landscape Plan
                                                                                    Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                           These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                           registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                           reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                             R



                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET NO.:



                                                                                                                                                              Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                Call before you dig.                L1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            4 June, 2021
                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                               DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13012 South Pony Express Road,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                           B


                                                                                                                                                                                               SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    06/04/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.       DATE                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                        11/12/2020                                   Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1      04/21/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2      06/04/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 2 DWGS\20-016LS.dwg, 6/4/2021 12:19:14 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO.:                                                      DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                               20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Building 2 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Landscape Plan
                                                                                    Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                               These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                               registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                               reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.:




                                                                                                                                                              Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                Call before you dig.                    L1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                4 June, 2021
                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                               DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13012 South Pony Express Road,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                           B


                                                                                                                                                                                               SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    06/04/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.       DATE                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                        11/12/2020                                   Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1      04/21/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2      06/04/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 2 DWGS\20-016LS.dwg, 6/4/2021 12:22:18 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO.:                                                      DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                               20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Building 2 North
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Landscape Plan
                                                                                    Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                               These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                               registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                               reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.:




                                                                                                                                                              Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                Call before you dig.                    L1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                4 June, 2021
                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                              DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                          C




                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                              SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13012 South Pony Express Road,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                          B


                                                                                                                                                                                              SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    06/04/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                              SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                               NO.       DATE                                        DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                       11/12/2020                                   Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                1      04/21/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                2      06/09/2021                                 Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 2 DWGS\20-016LS.dwg, 6/9/2021 1:52:36 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT NO.:                                                      DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                              20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Building 2 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Landscape Plan
                                                                                   Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                              These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                              registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                              reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET NO.:




                                                                                                                                                             Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                               Call before you dig.                    L1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                               9 June, 2021
                                                                                                                    COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2                            1
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING MATERIAL PERCENTAGES PER DCMC 9-22-040(F)(3)&(4):

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL NORTH SF                                                                                         13,884 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GLASS/ DOORS (NOT INCLUDED IN CALC)                                                                     1,167 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL MATERIAL CALC SF                                                                                 12,717 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NORTH ELEVATION CALCULATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PAINTED TILT (10,949 SF)                                                                                  86.1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARCHITECTURAL SPECIALTY FINISH(1,482 SF)(SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                              11.7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BUILDING DESIGN PER DCMC 9-22-040(C)(1):                                                                                            PARAPETS RANGE FROM 2'-0" TO 4'-0" THROUGHOUT BUILIDING TO                                                                                                                               BRAKE METAL (75 SF) (SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                                                     .6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            355' LINEAR FEET OF BUILDING FACADE                                            100%                                                SCREEN ROOF TOP UNITS. ALL VISABLE RTUs TO BE PAINTED WHITE                                                                                                                               ROOF SHEET METAL (211 SF) (SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                                              1.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            245' - 0" OF VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                          69%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL                                                                                                      100%




                                                                                                                                               H                                                                               G                                                                   F                                                         E                                                              D                                                             C                                                         B                                                                                     A
                                       40' - 4"                                                                                                                                      60' - 0"                                                           47' - 0"                                                      47' - 0"                                                               47' - 0"                                                  47' - 0"                                                     47' - 0"                                                  60' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT TITLE:
                                         T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                                                                                                               67' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                    141' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                          37' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                            VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                            38' - 4"                                                                                36' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                              38' - 4"                                                                                                36' - 4"               VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                                 SUMMIT
                                FOUR (4) CAN DOWN LIGHTS IN SOFFIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                                                                       T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                                                                                           T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                                                                                   T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMMERCE
                                FOR ENTRANCE LIGHTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CENTER -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FIN PROJECTION                                      BUILDING 2
                                                                       2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40' - 4"
                                                                     A203




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              27' - 8 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13012 S PONY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ARCHITECTURAL SPECIALTY FINISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOLLARD LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LED WALL DOWNLIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOLLARD LIGHT                                                                                    BOLLARD LIGHT                                           LOCATION OF POTENTIAL FUTURE TENANT                                                 EXPRESS RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ENTRANCE, NOT FOR OVERHEAD DOOR USE
                                STOREFRONT RECESSED 7'-8" FROM HORIZONTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VARIATION OF MATERIALS NEAR ENTRANCE OF CONCRETE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2                                                                                                                                                         DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TILT PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-040 (F)(5)
                                PLANE PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-040(C)(2)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAIN FACADE FACES PRICIPLE STREET "GOLDEN HARVEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1         BUILDING 2 - NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                                                                                                                   2                                               SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ROAD" PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-050 (A)(1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DCMC SECTION 9-22-050 (A)(3):CORNER LOT SHALL INCLUDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROMINENT FEATURE
                                                                                                                                                        2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALL VISABLE RTUs TO BE PAINTED WHITE, TYP                                       BUILDING DESIGN PER DCMC 9-22-040(C)(1):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       715' LINEAR FEET OF BUILDING FACADE                                        100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       500' - 3" OF VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                     69.9%

                                                                                                                                                        ROOF HATCH TO BE PAINTED WHITE
                                                                                                                            14                                                                                            13                                                                     12                                                                       11                                                                     10                                                                9                                                          8                                                                                7
                                                                                                                                                                  60' - 6"                                                                         54' - 0"                                                              54' - 0"                                                                         54' - 0"                                                   54' - 0"                                                                      54' - 0"                                                            54' - 0"                                                                            B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                54' - 0"                                                                                                  54' - 0"                                                                                               54' - 0"                                                                                              54' - 0"
                                                   36' - 4"                                                                                                                            RTU PAINTED WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                     VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                 VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                     VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                      SEAL:
                                                       T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK
                                                  34' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5' - 0" TYP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5' - 0" TYP
                                                    T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5' - 0" TYP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5' - 0" TYP
                                                                                                                                                                  60' - 6"

                                                                                                                                                       VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOT FOR
                                                                                                  41' - 3 1/2"

                                                                                                                 T.O. RTU




                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                           27' - 8 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27' - 8 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN          SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.       DATE               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1      4/12/2021           DESIGN REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2      6/4/2021             RESUBMITTAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2         BUILDING 2 - WEST BUILDING ELEVATION - NORTH HALF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A201       SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PARAPETS RANGE FROM 2'-0" TO 4'-0" THROUGHOUT BUILIDING TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SCREEN ROOF TOP UNITS. ALL VISABLE RTUs TO BE PAINTED WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING MATERIAL PERCENTAGES PER DCMC 9-22-040(F)(3)&(4):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THREE (3) CAN DOWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIGHTS IN SOFFIT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL WEST SF                                                                                             27,919 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RTU PAINTED WHITE                                                                                                                                                                                              ENTRANCE LIGHTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GLASS/ DOORS (NOT INCLUDED IN CALC)                                                                        4,175 SF
                                                                                              7                                                                                                 6                                                                     5                                                                            4                                                                   3                                                                      2                                                                  1                  TOTAL MATERIAL CALC SF                                                                                    23,744 SF
                                                                                                                                                   54' - 0"                                                                    54' - 0"                                                                    54' - 0"                                                               54' - 0"                                                            54' - 0"                                                                 60' - 6"
                                                                           4' - 6 3/8"




                                      36' - 4"                                                                                                                                              54' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                 54' - 0"                                                                     8' - 6"                               53' - 3"                                    PAINTED TILT (22,509 SF)                                                                                     94.7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ARCHITECTURAL SPECIALTY FINISH(803 SF)(SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                                     3.4%
                                         T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                                                                                                VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                                                                                                                                             VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                      VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                    BRAKE METAL (36 SF) (SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                                                        .2%        PROJECT NO.:                        DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                     1' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ROOF SHEET METAL (396 SF) (SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                                                 1.7%
                                      34' - 4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL                                                                                                         100%         HD100-20                            DFW
                                         T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                                                                       5' - 0" TYP                                                                                                                                                       54' - 0"                                                                                                                        5' - 0" TYP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                 5' - 0" TYP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5' - 0" TYP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T.O. RTU
                                                                        7' - 5 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 43' - 1"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ELEVATIONS
                                                                         8' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           27' - 8 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                  28' - 2 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A203
                                                                           6' - 1 1/8"
                                                                        10' - 4 7/8"
Printed: 6/9/2021 9:54:38 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN                                                                                         registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0' - 0"                                                                                      reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                    3' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STOREFRONT RECESSED 6'-2" FROM HORIZONTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLANE PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-040(C)(2)                                                                                                     SHEET NO.:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VARIATION OF MATERIALS NEAR ENTRANCE OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE TILT PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-040 (F)(5)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3     BUILDING 2 - WEST BUILDING ELEVATION - SOUTH HALF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A201        SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"

                               COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO                                         5                                                                                                                                                           4                                                                                                                                         3                                                                                                                           2                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING MATERIAL PERCENTAGES PER DCMC 9-22-040(F)(3)&(4):

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL SOUTH SF                                                             13,884 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GLASS/ DOORS (NOT INCLUDED IN CALC)                                         1,167 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL MATERIAL CALC SF                                                     12,717 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PAINTED TILT (10,949 SF)                                                       86.1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ARCHITECTURAL SPECIALTY FINISH(1,482 SF)(SECONDARY MATERIAL)                   11.7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BREAK METAL (75 SF) (SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                          .6%
                                                                                                                                                    PARAPETS RANGE FROM 2'-0" TO 4'-0" THROUGHOUT BUILIDING TO                             SOUTH ELEVATION CALCULATION                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF SHEET METAL (211 SF) (SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                   1.6%
                                                                                                                                                   SCREEN ROOF TOP UNITS. ALL VISABLE RTUs TO BE PAINTED WHITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL                                                                           100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING DESIGN PER DCMC 9-22-040(C)(1):
                                                                                                     DCMC 9-22-050(A)(1)                                                                                                                   355' LINEAR FEET OF BUILDING FACADE                                          100%
                                                                                                        SEE SHEET A203                                                                                                                     245' - 0" OF VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                        69%


                                                                                     A                                                         B                                                 C                                             D                                                              E                                                          F                                            G                                                         H
                                                                                                                 60' - 0"                                          47' - 0"                                             47' - 0"                                                  47' - 0"                                      47' - 0"                                                       47' - 0"                                       60' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  141' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                       37' - 0"                                                                                 PROJECT TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         40' - 4"
                                              40' - 4"

                                                T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK
                                                                                                                                    38' - 4"
                                                                                                                T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                   T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                      36' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                             38' - 4"                                                VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                                                                                       VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUMMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMMERCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FIN PROJECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CENTER -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING 2

                                      STOREFRONT RECESSED 7'-8" FROM
                                      HORIZONTAL PLANE PER DCMC
                                      SECTION 9-22-040(C)(2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0' - 0"



                                                                                                                                    ARCHITECTURAL SPECIALTY FINISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOLLARD LIGHT                                                                                             BOLLARD LIGHT                                                                            BOLLARD LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13012 S PONY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXPRESS RD
                                                                                                                                    VARIATION OF MATERIALS NEAR ENTRANCE OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                    TILT PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-040 (F)(5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LED WALL DOWNLIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1          BUILDING 2 SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2                                                          A202        SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING MATERIAL PERCENTAGES PER DCMC 9-22-040(F)(3)&(4):

                                                                                                                                                                       EAST ELEVATION CALCULATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL EAST SF                                                                27,919 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GLASS/ DOORS (NOT INCLUDED IN CALC)                                           4,175 SF
                                                                                                                                                                       BUILDING DESIGN PER DCMC 9-22-040(C)(1):                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL MATERIAL CALC SF                                                       23,744 SF
                                                                                                                                                                       715' LINEAR FEET OF BUILDING FACADE                                100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PAINTED TILT (22,509 SF)                                                        94.7%
                                                                                                                                                                       500' - 3" OF VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                             69.9%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARCHITECTURAL SPECIALTY FINISH(803 SF)(SECONDARY MATERIAL)                       3.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BRAKE METAL (36 SF) (SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                          .2%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RTU PAINTED WHITE                                                                                                                                                      ROOF SHEET METAL (396 SF) (SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                   1.7%
                                                                             1                                                  2                                                      3                                                          4                                                                5                                                                6                                                  7                 TOTAL                                                                           100%
                                                                                                  60' - 6"                                           54' - 0"                                                       54' - 0"                                                           54' - 0"                                                    54' - 0"                                                54' - 0"                                                                                                                                    B
                                 36' - 4"
                                                                                                  60' - 6"                                                                          54' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                      54' - 0"
                                   T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEAL:
                                                                                         VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                         VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                                                                                                     VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION

                                 34' - 4"

                                    T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                                                                                                                                                                                                                          54' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. RTU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43' - 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0' - 0"                                                                   NO.       DATE               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1      4/12/2021           DESIGN REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2      6/4/2021             RESUBMITTAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2           BUIDING 2 - EAST BUILDING ELEVATION SOUTH HALF
                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARAPETS RANGE FROM 2'-0" TO 4'-0" THROUGHOUT BUILIDING TO                                                               A202             SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                        LED WALL DOWNLIGHT, TYP                                           2 SCREEN ROOF TOP UNITS. ALL VISABLE RTUs TO BE PAINTED WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RTU PAINTED WHITE


                                                                                     7                                                  8                                                        9                                                               10                                                     11                                                                    12                                              13                                                          14
                                                                                                             54' - 0"                                           54' - 0"                                                       54' - 0"                                                           54' - 0"                                                    54' - 0"                                                54' - 0"                                               60' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            40' - 4"
                                                     36' - 4"                                                54' - 0"                                                                          54' - 0"                                                                                           54' - 0"                                                                                   54' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK
                                                         T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK               VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                      VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                        VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                    VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      38' - 4"
                                                     34' - 4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 62' - 6"                          T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                  PROJECT NO.:                        DRAWN BY:
                                                         T.O. PANEL B.O. WD. BLOCK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                 HD100-20                            DFW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THREE (3) CAN LIGHTS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENTRANCE LIGHTING                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1                          ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A203




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN
Printed: 6/9/2021 9:54:42 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STOREFRONT RECESSED 7'-8" FROM                  reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HORIZONTAL PLANE PER DCMC SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9-22-040(C)(2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET NO.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VARIATION OF MATERIALS NEAR ENTRANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OF CONCRETE TILT PER DCMC SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9-22-040 (F)(5)




                               COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUIDING 2 - EAST BUILDING ELEVATION NORTH HALF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SCALE: 1/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A202
                                                                                 5                                                                                          4                                                                                                                     3                                                                                                        2                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ARCHITECTURAL ACCENT TILT PANEL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H                                                                                                  G

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3' - 0"                      30' - 0"                                            30' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                               14                                          5' - 9 1/4"                 1' - 2 3/4"
                                                                            FIN VARIATION AT 4' -0" FROM HORIZONTAL PLANE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FUTURE TENANT
                                                                                                                               15' - 0"                                            37' - 0"                                                                                                                SIGN LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ARCHITECTURAL SPECIALTY FINISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUMMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMMERCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CENTER -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BUILDING 2




                                                                                                                                                      40' - 10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               38' - 10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                38' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13012 S PONY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXPRESS RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER, UT 84020


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOUR (4) CAN DOWN LIGHTS IN SOFFIT                                                                                                                    VARIATION OF MATERIALS NEAR ENTRANCE OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOR ENTRANCE LIGHTING                                                                                                                                 TILT PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-040 (F)(5)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STOREFRONT RECESSED 7'-8" FROM HORIZONTAL                                                                                                             MAIN FACADE FACES PRICIPLE STREET "GOLDEN HARVEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLANE PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-040(C)(2)                                                                                                                 ROAD" PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-050 (A)(1)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DCMC SECTION 9-22-050 (A)(3):CORNER LOT SHALL INCLUDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROMINENT FEATURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B

                                                                                                                1    NORTHEAST CORNER - ENLARGED EAST ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                            2     NORTHEAST CORNER - ENLARGED NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                     SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                         SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                             SEAL:
                                                                                                            A203                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A203



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOT FOR
                                                                                                                    ARCHITECTURAL ACCENT TILT PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                  FUTURE TENANT                                                                                                                                        FIN VARIATION AT 4' -0" FROM HORIZONTAL PLANE
                                                                                                            A                     SIGN LOCATION                         2                                           B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                  7' - 0"                           30' - 0"                                                  30' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15' - 0"                                  37' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARCHITECTURAL SPECIALTY FINISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NO.       DATE               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1      4/12/2021           DESIGN REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2      6/4/2021             RESUBMITTAL




                                           STOREFRONT RECESSED 7'-8" FROM
                                           HORIZONTAL PLANE PER DCMC
                                           SECTION 9-22-040(C)(2)
                                                                            40' - 4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         38' - 10"
                                                                                       38' - 4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRAKE METAL (SECONDARY MATERIAL)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT NO.:                        DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HD100-20                            DFW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENLARGED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STOREFRONT RECESSED 6'-2" FROM HORIZONTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRAKE METAL (SECONDARY MATERIAL)                                                                                                                                                    PLANE PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-040(C)(2)
Printed: 6/9/2021 9:55:31 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VARIATION OF MATERIALS NEAR ENTRANCE OF CONCRETE                                                                                                                                    VARIATION OF MATERIALS NEAR ENTRANCE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TILT PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-040 (F)(5)                                                                                                                                               CONCRETE TILT PER DCMC SECTION 9-22-040 (F)(5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                  4               SOUTHWEST CORNER - ENLARGED SOUTH ELEVATION                                                                                                         3      SOUTHWEST CORNER - ENLARGED WEST ELEVATION                                                                                                                          SHEET NO.:
                                                                                                                                               A203               SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                A203    SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"




                               COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A203
                                                                       5                                                                                                      4                                                                                          3                                                                                    2                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2




                                                             4                                    5                   6                           7                                      8                                   9                                                10                            11                       12                           13                                   14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P3        P2
                                                                          P3                P1              P2                     P1                                                                                                                  WHITE TPO                                                                                                            P1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0' - 0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                               P2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUMMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1     EAST BUILDING ELEVATIONS
                                  PAINT SCHEDULE - DCMC 9-22-040(F)(6) (THREE COLORS PROVIDED)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A210   SCALE: 3/64" = 1'-0"                                                                   COMMERCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CENTER -
                                       P1                     P2                       P3                  P11
                                                                                                                                                                     2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUILDING 2
                                   WOOL SKEIN           ANALYTICAL GRAY          TORCHLIGHT           SAFETY YELLOW
                                    SW 6148                 SW 7051                SW 6374

                                  METAL GRAVEL STOP                            PAC-CLAD KYNAR                                                     H                 FUTURE TENANT                G                           F                                        E                          D                          C                    B                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                    SIGN LOCATION
                                  HOLLOW METAL DOORS AND FRAMES                TO MATCH ADJACENT WALL COLOR

                                  METAL DOCK DOORS                             WHITE                                                                  P2                            P3                    P2        P1                    P3                 P1                                                                                                              P2

                                  METAL STAIR, LANDING AND HANDRAILS           GALVANIZED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13012 S PONY
                                  STEEL BOLLARDS                               SAFETY YELLOW (P11)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXPRESS RD
                                  ALUMINUM STOREFRONT                          CLEAR ANODIZED ALUMINUM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P3                                                     DRAPER, UT 84020
                                  EXTERIOR GLAZING                             SMOKE GRAY                                          P3

                                  TPO ROOF                                     WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BOLLARD LIGHT            P2                           BOLLARD LIGHT                          BOLLARD LIGHT
                                                                                2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2     NORTH BUILDING ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A210   SCALE: 3/64" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SEAL:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOT FOR
                                                              11                                     10                   9                           8                                      7                                   6                                             5                             4                        3                             2                                     1                                               CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P3            P2
                                                                           P3                P1                  P2                 P1                                                                                                             WHITE TPO                                                                                                                 P1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO.       DATE               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1      4/12/2021           DESIGN REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2      6/4/2021             RESUBMITTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3     WEST BUILDING ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                           2                                                                                                                                                                                               A210   SCALE: 3/64" = 1'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT NO.:                        DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                         A                                               B                               C                                        D                          E                          F                   G                                     H                                                                      HD100-20                            DFW
                                                                                                                                                           FUTURE TENANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                           SIGN LOCATION
                                                                                                                                             P2                               P3                     P2        P1                    P3                 P1                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P1                                                                                                 PAINT SCHEME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ELEVATIONS, DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AND SCHEDULES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P3

                                                                                                                              P3
Printed: 6/9/2021 9:55:39 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OVERALL BUILDING 2 FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0' - 0"                        registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHEET NO.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOLLARD LIGHT                                 P2                BOLLARD LIGHT                        BOLLARD LIGHT




                               COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2                                                                      2                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOUTH BUILDING ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCALE: 3/64" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A210
                                                                           5                                                             4                                                                                                     3                                                                                 2                                                                          1
 EXHIBIT H
RENDERINGS
13012 S PONY
EXPRESS RD
DRAPER, UT 84020




NO.     DATE       DESCRIPTION
 1    4/12/2021   DESIGN REVIEW
 2     6/4/2021    RESUBMITTAL
13012 S PONY
EXPRESS RD
DRAPER, UT 84020




NO.     DATE       DESCRIPTION
 1    4/12/2021   DESIGN REVIEW
 2     6/4/2021    RESUBMITTAL
13012 S PONY
EXPRESS RD
DRAPER, UT 84020




NO.     DATE       DESCRIPTION
 1    4/12/2021   DESIGN REVIEW
 2     6/4/2021    RESUBMITTAL
   EXHIBIT I
LIGHTING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SYMBOL LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EQUIPMENT CONNECTION. VERIFY CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS WITH EQUIPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E         SUPPLIER.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMBO STARTER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NON - FUSED DISCONNECT SWITCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F         FUSED DISCONNECT SWITCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J         JUNCTION BOX

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20 AMP RECEPTACLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20 AMP ISOLATED GROUND RECEPTACLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20 AMP GFCI RECEPTACLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUMMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WP             20 AMP GFCI RECEPTACLE WITH IN-USE COVER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMMERCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20 AMP HOSPITAL GRADE RECEPTACLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CENTER -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20 AMP TAMPER PROOF RECEPTACLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BUILDING #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20 AMP RECEPTACLE ON EMERGENCY POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13012 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20 AMP USB COMBO RECEPTACLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PONY EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2 X 20 AMP RECEPTACLES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SPECIAL PURPOSE OUTLET. NUMBER INDICATES AMPS. MATCH TO EQUIPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROAD DRAPER UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1 VOICE 3/4" STUB TO ACCESSIBLE CEILING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1 DATA 3/4" STUB TO ACCESSIBLE CEILING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1 VOICE, 1 DATA 3/4" STUB TO ACCESSIBLE CEILING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TV 3/4" STUB TO ACCESSIBLE CEILING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 K4 CONNECT SMART SWITCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SINGLE POLE SWITCH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THREE WAY SWITCH
                                                          Schedule

                                                           Symbol    Label   Image   QTY Manufacturer Catalog Number Description                               Lamp
                                                                                                                                                                                        Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Filename
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lumens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   per
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lumen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Multiplie   LLF Wattage Efficiency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Distribut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Polar Plot Notes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOUR WAY SWITCH
                                                                                                                                                                                         Lamps                                                                            ion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lamp        r
                                                                                      2        U.S.         RZR-PLED-III-W-40LED- CAST BLACK PAINTED FINNED    40 WHITE LIGHT             40 RZR-PLED-III-        382         1       0.9       128.2          100%
                                                                                               ARCHITECTURA -1050mA-NW            METAL HOUSING.               EMITTING DIODES                  W-40LED-                                                                                                                                                         LINE VOLTAGE MOTION SENSOR SWITCH
                                                                                               L LIGHTING                                                      (LEDS), BASE UP.                 1050mA-
                                                                     P1                                                                                                                         NW.IES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LINE VOLTAGE MOTION SENSOR WITH 0-10 VOLT DIMMING
                                                                                     10 U.S.                RZR-PLED-III-W-40LED- CAST BLACK PAINTED FINNED    40 WHITE LIGHT             40 RZR-PLED-III-        292         1       0.9       128.2          100%                                                                                                                                                                                                              B
                                                                                               ARCHITECTURA -1050mA-NW-HS         METAL HOUSING.               EMITTING DIODES                  W-40LED-

                                                                     P2
                                                                                               L LIGHTING                                                      (LEDS), BASE UP.                 1050mA-NW-
                                                                                                                                                                                                HS.IES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOW VOLTAGE SWITCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEAL:
                                                                                      2        U.S.         RZR-PLED-IV-40LED-     CAST BLACK PAINTED FINNED   40 WHITE LIGHT             40 RZR-PLED-IV-         408         1       0.9       128.2          100%                                                                                              LINE VOLTAGE VACANCY SENSOR
                                                                                               ARCHITECTURA 1050mA-NW              METAL HOUSING.              EMITTING DIODES                  40LED-1050mA-
                                                                                               L LIGHTING                                                      (LEDS), BASE UP.                 -NW.IES
                                                                     P3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LINE VOLTAGE VACANCY SENSOR SWITCH WITH 0-10 VOLT DIMMING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Summit Commerce Bldg 2 6/2
                                                                                      4        U.S.         RZR-PLED-VSQ-W-        CAST BLACK PAINTED FINNED   40 WHITE LIGHT             40 RZR-PLED-VSQ-        407         1       0.9       128.2          100%
                                                                                               ARCHITECTURA 40LED-1050mA-NW
                                                                                               L LIGHTING
                                                                                                                                   METAL HOUSING.              EMITTING DIODES
                                                                                                                                                               (LEDS), BASE UP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                W-40LED-
                                                                                                                                                                                                1050mA-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M         LOW VOLTAGE MOTION SENSOR CEILING. PROVIDE POWER PACKS AS REQUIRED.
                                                                     P4                                                                                                                         NW.IES


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M H LOW VOLTAGE MOTION SENSOR HIGH CEILING. PROVIDE POWER PACKS AS REQUIRED
                                                                                      4        U.S.         RZR-PLED-IV-FT-40LED- CAST BLACK PAINTED FINNED    40 WHITE LIGHT             40 RZR-PLED-IV-         371         1       0.9       128.2          100%
                                                                                               ARCHITECTURA -1050mA-NW            METAL HOUSING.               EMITTING DIODES                  FT-40LED-
                                                                                               L LIGHTING                                                      (LEDS), BASE UP.                 1050mA-
                                                                     P5                                                                                                                         NW.IES                                                                                                                                                           DIMMER SWITCH

                                                                                      1        U.S.         RZR-PLED-IV-FT-40LED- CAST BLACK PAINTED FINNED    FORTY WHITE LIGHT          40 RZR-PLED-IV-         201         1       0.9        64.7          100%                                                                                    PC        PHOTO CELL LINE VOLTAGE
                                                                                               ARCHITECTURA -525mA-NW             METAL HOUSING, CAST BLACK    EMITTING DIODES                  FT-40LED-
                                                                                               L LIGHTING                         PAINTED METAL DRIVER         (LEDS), VERTICAL BASE-           525mA-NW.IES
                                                                                                                                  COVER, 2 CIRCUIT BOARDS      -UP POSITION.

                                                                     P6
                                                                                                                                  EACH WITH 20 LEDS, 1 CLEAR   PRORATED BASED ON                                                                                                                                                                       PC        PHOTO CELL LOW VOLTAGE
                                                                                                                                  PLASTIC OPTIC BELOW EACH     RZR-80PLED ITL.
                                                                                                                                  LED, 1 FORMED SEMI-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                  SPECULAR METAL OPTIC
                                                                                                                                  MOUNTING PLATE BELOW EACH                                                                                                                                                                                                      LINE VOLTAGE WIRING                                                                                                  NO.       DATE               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                  CIRCUIT BOARD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              06-05-2021           CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                     30 U.S.                RZR-WM1-PLED-IV-FT-
                                                                                               ARCHITECTURA 20LED-1050mA-NW
                                                                                                                                   CAST BLACK PAINTED FINNED
                                                                                                                                   METAL HOUSING, CAST BLACK
                                                                                                                                                               TWENTY WHITE LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                               EMITTING DIODES
                                                                                                                                                                                          20 RZR-WM1-PLED-
                                                                                                                                                                                                -IV-FT-20LED-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  328         1       0.9        64.1          100%                                                                                                                                                                    INDEX OF ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS
                                                                                               L LIGHTING                          PAINTED METAL DRIVER        (LEDS), VERTICAL BASE-           1050mA-NW.ies                                                                                                                                                    LOW VOLTAGE WIRING
                                                                                                                                   COVER, 1 CIRCUIT BOARD      -UP POSITION.

                                                                     WP
                                                                                                                                   WITH 20 LEDS, 1 CLEAR
                                                                                                                                   PLASTIC OPTIC BELOW EACH
                                                                                                                                                               PRORATED FOR (1)
                                                                                                                                                               20PLED PANEL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E001 - SYMBOLS AND SCHEDULES
                                                                                                                                   LED, 1 FORMED SEMI-                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHIME
                                                                                                                                   SPECULAR METAL OPTIC
                                                                                                                                   MOUNTING PLATE BELOW EACH
                                                                                                                                   CIRCUIT BOARD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Designer                                                                                                                         E002 - ELECTRICAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                     14 Lithonia             LDN6 40/07 LO6WR 6IN LDN, 4000K, 750LM,                                      1      LDN6_40_07_L     695         1       0.9        8.91          100% DIRECT,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PUSH BUTTON
                                                                                             Lighting                              WHITE, CRI80                                                  O6WR.ies                                                              SC-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0=1.02,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Date                                                                                                                             E003 - SITE LIGHTING PHOTOMETRICS
                                                                      D                                                                                                                                                                                                SC-                            11/4/2020                                        GTD GENERATOR TRANSFER DEVICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       90=1.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Scale                                                                                                                            E101 - POWER PLAN
                                                                                      6        U.S.         RZRB1-PLED-III-W-
                                                                                               ARCHITECTURA 20LED-175mA-NW
                                                                                                                                   CAST BLACK PAINTED FINNED
                                                                                                                                   METAL HOUSING.
                                                                                                                                                               20 WHITE LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                               EMITTING DIODES
                                                                                                                                                                                          20 RZRB1-PLED-III-
                                                                                                                                                                                                -W-20LED-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   85         1       0.5         11           100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Not to Scale                                     CR        CARD READER
                                                                                               L LIGHTING                                                      (LEDS), BASE UP.                 175mA-NW.ies                                                                                          Drawing No.
                                                                      B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E102 - ENLARGED ELECTRICAL PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REX REQUEST TO EXIT BUTTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E201 - LIGHTING PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CCTV CAMERA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2 of 2                                                 SOUND CABINET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E301 - ONE LINE AND PANEL SCHEDULES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E401 - ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SP        SPEAKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT NO.:                        DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SP        OUTDOOR SPEAKER                                                                                                     ---                                    CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MIC       MICROPHONE                                                                                                          SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VOLUME CONTROL SWITCH                                                                                               SYMBOLS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INTERCOM CALL SWITCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SCHEDULES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C        WALL MOUNT WIRELESS CLOCK
Printed: 10/28/2020 1:08:36 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET NO.:




                                 COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E001        10/09/2020
                                                                     5                                                                                                                                       4                                                                                                                                3                                                            2                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESIGNER / BUILDER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GENERAL NOTES                                                                                                                     KEY NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.        ALL SITE LIGHTING CONDUITS TO BE 1".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1     PROVIDE 1" CONDUIT FOR FUTURE MONUMENT SIGN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.        SEE SHEET E201 FOR ENLARGED VIEW OF EXTERIOR LIGHTING MOUNTED TO                                                                           MARK ON AS-BUILT DRAWING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND AROUND BUILDING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2     STUB PRIMARY POWER CONDUIT TO PONY EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.        SEE ONE LINE DIAGRAM FOR MORE INFORMATION.                                                                                                 ROAD. DO NOT BEGIN WORK WITHOUT APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER DRAWING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.        ASTRONOMICAL TIME CLOCK TO BE PROGRAMMED TO TURN EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIGHTING OFF DURING NON-OPERATIONAL HOURS. SEE SHEET E301 FOR                                                                        3     STUB COMMUNICATIONS CONDUITS TO GOLDEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MORE INFORMATION.                                                                                                                          HARVEST ROAD. FIELD VERIFY LOCATIONS WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RESPECTIVE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.        POLE HEAD LIGHTS HAVE DIFFERENT DISTRIBUTION PATTERNS. TAKE EXTRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CAUTION TO INSTALL THE CORRECT LIGHT HEAD ON EACH POLE.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.        SEE SHEET E003 FOR PHOTOMETRICS.
                                                                                                                                              N 89 57'42" W                                          Golden                              Harvest                               Road                          C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Golden             Harvest          Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                      2

                                                                                                                                                              1          HP-8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1) 6" CONDUIT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P1                                                                             P3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRIMARY POWER                                                           SUMMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HP-6
                                                                                                                                                                   P6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMMERCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CENTER -
                                                                                Sign

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B                                 'SES'                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING #2
                                                                         Sign                                                         P2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B           T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HP-2                                                                                                                                                               13012 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (2) 4" CONDUITS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HP-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B                                           (COMMUNICATIONS)                                                                                                        PONY EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WP
                                                                                                                                                                                           WP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DDD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROAD DRAPER UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         84020
                                                                                                                                                                                   WP



                                                                                                                    P2
                                                                  Sign
                                                                                                                                                                              WP                                                                                                                                            WP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WP                                               P5
                                                                                                                                                                         WP



                                                              W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WP
                                                                                                                                                                    WP


                                                                                                               P2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WP                                                                                                                                  B
                                                                                                                                                                   WP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SEAL:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WP
                                                                                                                                                              WP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Building #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          253,825 s.f.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FF=4428.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WP
                                                                                                                                                       WP                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Future Phase
                                                                                                          P2                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WP
                                                                                                                                                  WP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WP                                                                                                                                                          NO.       DATE               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                             WP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   06-05-2021           CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WP
                                                                                                                                  WP

                                                                                                     P2


                                                                                                                          WP                                                                                                                                                    WP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WP

                                                                                                                     D
                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                      DD
                                                                                                                                 DD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WP
                                                                                                                                                                    WP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT NO.:                        DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                     P5                                                                             B                                                                                                                             P4                                                                                                                                     ---                                    CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                   WP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WP                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B                                                                                                                                                                                                    ELECTRICAL SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PLAN

                                                                                                                          P2
Printed: 10/29/2020 7:16:58 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                      P2                                                                                                                                                                           P2
                                                                                                                                                                                                        RC SAYS PC                            P2                                                        P2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TK      Acres           A m e 2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nded                                                                                                                      X                                                                           registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                       Lot 7                             Lot 6                                                                                            Lot 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lot 2                                                                                                SHEET NO.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Dairy Council of Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                   Lot 5                                                                                                                                                    Bailie Properties LC

                                                                                                                                                                                        Brick Wall Properties, LLC                Curvelo Smith Venture LLC
                                                                                       Draper City                        Karen J Anderson                                                                                                                            Lot 3




                                 COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO
                                                                                                                                                                                        E002
                                                                                                                                                                                            1    ELECTRICAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCALE: 1" = 60'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E002        10/09/2020
                                                          5                                                                      4                                                                                                                                    3                                                                                                             2                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DES GNER BU LDER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GENERAL NOTES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.                                                                      ALL POLE HEIGHTS AT 20 ABOVE GROUND.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.                                                                  ALL CALCULATION POINTS AT 5 APART.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.                                                                 SEE SHEET E001 FOR LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULES.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Golden          Harvest           Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Golden                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Harvest                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Road                                                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N                                                                         W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT T TLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUMMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0                                                                        0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                        0.0                0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0                           0.0                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                        0.0             0.0           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0                             0.0                           0.0                             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                           0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0            0.0            0.0              0.0                                                         0.0                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                                         0.0                0.0           0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0           0.0               0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0             0.0           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0              0.0           0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                            0.0                                                         0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0            0.0                           0.0                                                          0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0              0.0          0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0             0.0                                                          0.0                                           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0             0.0            0.0          0.0                                                           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0              0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0            0.0            0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0          0.0              0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2           0.2                                           0.1            0.1             0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0              0.0          0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0             0.0            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                                                       0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1             0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.1              0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1            0.1            0.1            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0            0.0            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.2             0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3             0.3            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0          0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1             0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0           0.0             0.0           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0            0.0            0.0            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1             0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                          0.6            0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1           0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6             0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1            0.1            0.1            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.2            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0              0.0          0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4            0.3             0.3             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0          0.1              0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMMERCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0              0.0          0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1            0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1             0.1            0.1             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1            0.1              0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0            0.0             0.1                                                                                                                                         0.7             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2            0.2             0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                    0.8            0.9            0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1            0.1             0.1            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1            0.1            0.1             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1              0.1           0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2            0.2            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4            0.4            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0             0.0           0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.6              0.6           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1              0.1          0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0            0.0            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1            0.0            0.0            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1             0.2            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2             0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                           0.8            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4            0.4            0.3              0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0            0.0                                                                                                                           1.0             1.1           1.1             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1             0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3            0.3            0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0           0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2             0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2            0.2              0.2           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4             0.4           0.3             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7             0.6            0.6            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1            0.1              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2            0.3            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4             0.2             0.2            0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1              0.2                                                                                                                                         0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1             0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8              0.7           0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0               0.1                                                                                                                                           1.3           1.2             1.0              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6             0.7            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0           0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2            0.2            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3           0.4             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4             0.4           0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0          0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.7            0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.2            0.2             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1            0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1             0.1           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1            0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4            0.3            0.2              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2           0.2             0.3            0.5                                                                                                                           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1            0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3           1.1             0.9             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                 0.1             0.1                                                                                                                           1.6              1.4           1.2             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1              0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2            1.3            1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2            0.2            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6            0.8             1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.1             0.1            0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4            0.4            0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2              0.2           0.3             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8             0.7           0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3             0.3            0.3            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0            0.0              0.0          0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2            0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1             0.1             0.1            0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.7           2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.1            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7              0.4          0.3              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2            0.3             0.6           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2            0.2            0.2            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.3             1.9           1.5             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0         0.1            0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                           1.4            1.3            1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2            0.2            0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.0            2.2              2.5           2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CENTER -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.3            1.6            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4             0.4             0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2            0.2            0.2             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2           0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8             0.7            0.6            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.7            0.5            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1          0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4             0.5            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                          0.8           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2            0.1            0.1            0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.6            2.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3            0.2            0.2            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                        0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1              0.7           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                             0.3           0.5             0.9           1.8                                                                                                                           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4            0.3            0.4            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.5             3.1            2.4            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1             0.1            0.2                                                                                                                           1.6            1.4            1.2             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2             0.3            0.3            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.8           3.2             3.7            3.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.1             0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2            0.2            0.2            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.2             0.2              0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4            0.3            0.3            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4             0.3            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2              0.2          0.2              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7            0.6            0.5              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.8            1.6            1.1            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.2            0.2              0.2                                                                                                                           2.9           3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1             0.1              0.2          0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            1.0            1.4            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                           1.1            1.6            2.1            2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2            0.1            0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7            0.6            0.5             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                        0.5            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.1           0.7             0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0                                                                            0.6             1.2            2.3             3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.0            3.3              2.3           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1             0.1            0.2             0.3                                                                                                                           1.2           1.1             0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3            0.4            0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.2            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.3            4.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.0            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2            0.2            0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5           0.4             0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3            0.3            0.3            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4            0.3            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4              0.5           0.5             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6             0.5            0.5            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.8            2.0             1.2            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2              0.2            0.2            0.3                                                                                                                           3.4            3.7            3.9             4.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2           0.3             0.3           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0            2.7            3.3            3.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.2              0.2                                                                                                                         1.4            2.0              2.6           3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3              0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2            1.3            1.3            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1             0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                          0.4            0.6            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.6             1.1            0.7            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0                                                                               0.6            1.2              2.3            3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.9            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.9           2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1             0.1           0.2             0.3                                                                                                                           1.2            1.0            0.9              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5            0.6            0.6            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3          0.2              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.9           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2            0.3            0.3            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.2             0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9           0.8             0.6           0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3           0.3             0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6            0.4            0.3            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.3           4.1             3.6           2.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8             0.9              1.0           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5            0.5             0.4           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.4            3.2            1.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                          3.9            4.0            4.3            4.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4           0.5             0.6           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.2            3.9            4.5            4.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                          2.2             2.9            3.4            3.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4             0.3           0.3             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.6            1.8            2.1            2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                         0.6            0.8            1.1              1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.9              0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5           1.0             2.0            2.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.1            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                       0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                        0.1             0.1           0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                            1.0           0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6            0.7             0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.3             0.2              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                                                                         1.7           1.4             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3            0.3            0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3            0.3            0.3            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.1            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.4             1.1           0.8              0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3            0.3            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5            0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.9             3.8             3.3            2.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.6             1.8           1.8             1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5           0.5             0.4           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.9            2.6            1.5            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                        4.0            4.0            4.1              4.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9              1.1          1.3              1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.3            4.6            4.7            4.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3            0.3            0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                         3.0             3.5            4.0            4.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4            0.5             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.2            2.6            3.0            3.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2             0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                          0.9           1.3             1.8            2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1              0.7           0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BUILDING #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Future Phase
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0                                                                                          0.4            0.7             1.5           2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.2            1.4            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3            0.3            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1             0.1              0.1           0.2                                                                                                                           1.3             1.1            0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6            0.7            0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3            0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6           0.4             0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                                                                         1.6              1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3          0.3              0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4             0.4            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.9              2.3          1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.4             1.9           1.4             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3            0.3             0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            0.8            0.5            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.0             3.9           3.9             3.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.5             2.9           3.1              2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5            0.4            0.4            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.6             4.1            3.1            2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                         3.8            3.7              3.7           3.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.8           2.0             2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.7             4.4           4.5            4.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4            0.6            0.7             0.8                                                                                                                           2.4            2.9            3.4            3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.0            2.3            2.6            3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3            0.2            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                         0.8              1.0            1.4            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1             0.7             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             1.1           1.7             1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.3            1.5            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4             0.4            0.4            0.3                                                                                                                                                      1.0               0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0                                              0.1             0.1            0.2             0.3                                                                                                                          1.1            0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6            0.8            0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                      4.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5            0.5            0.5            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           0.6             0.4           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0            0.1                                                                                                                                          1.6              1.5            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3            0.4            0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6            0.5            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.3           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.6             3.0              2.1           1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.3            0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.4            1.1            0.8            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.0            3.9            3.5            3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.9            4.1             3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5            0.4             0.4             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.8            3.2            2.5            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.7                                                                                                                                                                                        3.3             3.3            3.5            3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8            1.1            1.4            1.6                                                                                                                                          2.5            3.0            3.3              3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.3            2.6            3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6            0.5            0.5             0.6                                                                                                                                         1.1             1.3            1.7            2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             1.0            1.4            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3            1.5            1.7            2.0                                                                                                                         4.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7            0.7            0.7            0.6                                                                                                                                                       1.9              1.4           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0                                                   0.1            0.2            0.2             0.3                                                                                                                           1.1           0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8            0.9            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                         3.5            3.7            3.8            4.0                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6            0.6            0.6            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9              0.6           0.4             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0              0.1                                                                                                                        1.5               1.4            1.3            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4            0.4             0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9            0.7            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.1           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.7             2.8           2.0             1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.3            0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.7            1.4            1.2            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.7            3.6              3.3           2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4           0.4             0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.8             3.0             3.2            3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.0            2.6            3.1            3.1                                                                                                                           2.1            2.4            2.7              2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.1            2.5            2.9                                                                                                                                      2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1            1.2            1.2            1.5                                                                                                                          1.2             1.3            1.5            1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                      0.7            1.1              1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.9                                                                                                                        3.5            3.1             2.7            2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9            1.0            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                          3.1            2.2            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1             0.2           0.3             0.4                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.8              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.1            3.3            3.4            3.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8            0.8            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.3             0.8              0.5           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.0             0.1                                                                                                                           1.4            1.3             1.2           1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             0.9            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.9             1.4            1.0            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1            1.2            1.4            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.2          3.2              3.0           2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5             0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                       0.6            0.7            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.2                                                                                                                                                                         2.4            2.5            2.7            3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.3            0.3            0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.2            4.0            4.7            4.7                                                                                                                          1.7             1.9            2.1            2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3           0.2             0.2            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.1            1.8            1.6            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.6            1.8            2.1            2.5                                                                                                                           1.4            1.2            1.3              1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                                                                       1.3                                                                                                                                                                       0.4            0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.6            2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2             1.2            1.4                                                                                                                                                        3.1             2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13012 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5             0.6              0.8            1.1                                                                                                                         0.7              0.6           0.5           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.0            3.1             3.1            2.9                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0            1.0            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7           0.4             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0             0.1           0.2             0.4                                                                                                                           1.0           1.0             0.9              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.1            2.4            2.7            2.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.9              0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                                                                          1.3           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3            1.4            1.6            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.4             2.1            1.7            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7            0.8            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.3            2.4              2.6           2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3            0.4            0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.7            4.8                                                                                                                                                         1.6            1.8             1.9            2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2            0.2            0.2            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.7             1.5            1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.7            3.2            4.0            4.4                                                                                                                          1.1             1.2           1.3             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                          1.2                                                                                                                                                                       0.4             0.3           0.3             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.3            2.2          2.0            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.5             1.7            1.9            2.2                                                                                                                         3.8            2.5            1.7              1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6           0.8             0.9            1.1                                                                                                                           0.7            0.6            0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.5            2.6            2.6             2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1            1.2            1.3            1.3                                                                                                                                                                       4.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7           0.4              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.1           0.3             0.5                                                                                                                           0.9              0.8           0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.9            2.1            2.3            2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2             1.2            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.8              0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                                                                          1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.3            1.5            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.9             1.7            1.4              1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6            0.7            0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1            1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8           1.9             2.0           2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.2              0.3            0.3            0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.9            5.0                                                                                                                                                         1.3            1.4            1.5            1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2             0.2             0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.7            1.6            1.5             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.4            2.7            3.2            4.0             4.6                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2             1.2            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4            0.3            0.3            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.0            2.0            1.9            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.6             1.8            2.1                                                                                                                                        4.0              3.1           2.2             1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8            0.9             1.0           1.1                                                                                                                           0.6             0.5           0.5             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.1            2.1            2.2             2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7           0.4              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.2            0.5             0.7                                                                                                                           0.8             0.7            0.7            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.6            1.8            1.9            2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.3            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.8             0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                                         1.0             1.0              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            1.0            1.1            1.3            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4            1.5          1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5            1.3            1.1              0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4            0.5             0.6            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2            1.2            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.5            1.5             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.2            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.4                                         1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.1            4.2            4.5                                                                                                                                                         1.2            1.2              1.2           1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6             1.6            1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.8            3.3            3.8                                                                                                                                           1.7           1.4             1.3            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.3             0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.8            1.8            1.7            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.6              3.1           2.5             2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0            1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                         0.5             0.5            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.7            1.8            1.8            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.7           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.3              0.7            0.8                                                                                                                           0.7            0.6            0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2            1.4            1.5            1.6             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                       2.1            2.5           2.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7             0.6             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0             0.1                                                                                                                           1.0            1.0            0.9              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.8            0.9            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.4            1.5            1.6            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1              1.0           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3            0.4            0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2             1.2            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1             1.1            1.2            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.2             0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4                                          1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.7            3.8            4.0                                                                                                                                                         1.2            1.1              1.1           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.6            1.5            1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8            1.5            1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3           0.3             0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6            1.6            1.6             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.2             2.9            2.5            2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1           1.1                                                                                                                                                         0.4             0.4            0.4            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4            1.5            1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1           0.5             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                           0.6             0.5           0.5             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2            1.3            1.4            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.3            2.7            3.1            3.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6            0.6            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0             0.1                                                                                                                           1.0              0.9           0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.8            0.9             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4            1.6            1.8             2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8             0.8           0.7             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3            0.4            0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2            1.2            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9            0.9            0.9              0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.2            0.2            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            1.3            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.4              3.5                                                                                                                                                         1.2           1.1             1.1             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.5            1.5            1.4            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.3                                                                                                                           1.8            1.6            1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.5            1.5            1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.0            2.6             2.4            2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.3            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PONY EXPRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                          0.3          0.3              0.3           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2            1.2            1.3            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.0                                         3.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1             0.2            0.7             1.1                                                                                                                                         0.5             0.4           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            1.1            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.8            2.1            2.4            2.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5            0.5            0.5              0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                                                                                                         1.0             0.8            0.7             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5            0.6            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2            1.3             1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7           0.7             0.6             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3             1.2              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2            0.3             0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1            1.1            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9            0.8            0.8            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            1.2            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.8            3.0                                                                                                                                                         1.3            1.2            1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4            1.4            1.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.0              1.8           1.6             1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2            0.2             0.2           0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            1.3            1.4            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.8             2.6            2.4            2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.3           0.3             0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1             1.1            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.5                                          2.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3           1.1             1.4                                                                                                                                         0.4             0.4            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.0            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.7             1.9            2.1            2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4          0.5              0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                           1.0             0.8           0.7             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6            0.7            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.2            1.3            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5           0.5             0.5            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.6              1.5           1.3             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.0            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7              0.7           0.6             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1            0.1            0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2            1.2             1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.0            0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2            1.2            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.4                                                                                                                           1.7           1.5             1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2             0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.2            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.2            2.1              2.0           1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3            0.3            0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.0            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.4            2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6           1.6                                                                                                                                                                          0.4             0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            0.9            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.6            1.8            2.0            2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                           0.8           0.6             0.5              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            0.8            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1            1.2             1.3            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4            0.4            0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6            1.4            1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            1.7             2.0            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9            0.9            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6           0.6             0.5             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.9              2.0             1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1            0.1            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1            1.1            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            0.9              0.8           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.1            1.1             1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4            1.3            1.2            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2            0.2            0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0            1.1            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.9            1.8              1.7            1.6            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3             0.3           0.3             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0             1.0            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.9            1.9            2.0            2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4            0.3            0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0            1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5            1.6            1.7            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1             0.1           0.2             1.0                                                                                                                           0.8            0.6            0.5              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.8            1.0            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            1.1            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4              0.4           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7            1.4             1.2           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6            4.8            6.0            3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8            0.8            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6             0.5            0.4            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.2              2.2            2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0            1.0            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1              1.0           0.9             0.8            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.2            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.1            1.1            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4             1.3            1.3            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.3             0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.0            1.0            1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.6           1.6             1.5            1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3             0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.6            1.6            1.7            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5                              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4             0.3           0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1             1.1            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3            1.4            1.4            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8           0.7              0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1             0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                           0.8              0.6           0.5             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.6            0.9            0.8            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            1.0            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3             0.3           0.3             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.8           1.5             1.2            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6            0.6            0.5            0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.1           2.9             2.5            2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0            0.9            0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1              1.0           0.9             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0            1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3            1.2            1.2            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3            0.3            0.3            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.0             1.0            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4            1.4            1.3             1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ROAD DRAPER UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3            0.3            0.3              0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            1.3            1.2            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            1.4            1.4              1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5           0.4             0.4              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4           0.4             0.4           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            1.1            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1             1.1            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.7           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                            1.0           0.8             0.6            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8            0.8            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4           0.3             0.3             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.4             1.9           1.5             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6            0.5              0.5          0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                          1.2             2.9            3.2             2.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9            0.9             0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             0.9             0.8            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.1            1.1            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.1            1.1              1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4             0.4           0.4            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0            0.9            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2             1.2            1.2            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4              0.4           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4            1.3             1.2            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2            1.2            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4           0.4             0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0            1.1              1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3              0.4           0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6           0.6             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2            0.3             0.4                                                                                                                                           1.0            0.8             0.6           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8            0.9             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4             0.3            0.3            0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.6             2.0            1.6             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.9            0.9            0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6            0.5              0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1                                                               2.0             3.7           3.7             3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.0            1.0            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            0.9             0.8            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.4            1.5            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.0           1.0             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4           0.4             0.4            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            1.2            2.2             2.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.0            1.0              1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.4            0.4            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.1            1.1             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4            0.4              0.4           0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.0            1.0            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3              0.4           0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6             0.6              0.6           0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2              0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                         0.8             0.6           0.5             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9            0.9            0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4             0.3            0.3            0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.0             1.6            1.2            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0            1.0            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6           0.5             0.4           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1                                                                                     3.8           3.8             3.3            2.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0            1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.8            0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.5            3.1            1.9            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.9            0.9            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5           0.5             0.5            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.9            0.8              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4           0.4             0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0             1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5           0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4            0.4            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.9            1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3             0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.7           0.6             0.6           0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.6            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.0             1.0            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3            0.3            0.3              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.0            1.6            1.2             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.2            1.1            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6           0.5             0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                                       4.1            3.8             3.2             2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9            1.0            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.8              0.7           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5           2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.3            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.8             0.8            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5            0.5             0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9              0.8           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.5           0.5             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.9            0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4            0.4             0.4           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0            1.0            1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4             0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.7           0.6             0.6           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3             0.4                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.6              0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0            1.0            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3              0.3           0.3             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1                                                                                                                           2.5            1.9             1.5           1.1             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.4            1.3            1.2            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5             0.5            0.4            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                                                                        3.4             4.0              3.5           3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.7              0.6           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6           0.6             0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.5             0.5            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0            0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6             0.5           0.5             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5             0.5           0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.9            2.0            1.8            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4            0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.7           0.7              0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1           0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                                         0.9              0.7           0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.2            1.0            0.9            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3              0.3           0.3             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1                                                                                                                                              2.3           1.8             1.4           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5             0.5            0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.8           3.9             3.4            2.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7           0.7             0.6             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8            0.8            0.7            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0            0.9            0.9             0.9            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5            0.6              0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.9            1.2              1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6             0.5              0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5             0.5           0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.1            4.3            5.5            3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4            0.4              0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8           0.7              0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1           0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                                          0.9             0.7            0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3             0.3             0.3            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1                                                                                                                                                 2.0           1.7             1.3              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5            0.4            0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.3            3.4             3.1           2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            0.6            0.6             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6              2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0            0.9            0.8              0.8           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1             1.1            1.0            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5           0.6             0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.2            1.1            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6           0.6             0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5             0.5            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4          0.5              0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                                                           0.8            0.7            0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.3             0.3             0.3            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                                   1.8            1.5             1.2             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5            0.5              0.4           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.0            2.9             2.5           2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8            0.7             0.6            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0            2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1             1.0           1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7           0.8             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1            1.2            1.2              1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6            0.6            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5            0.5              0.5           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4           0.5             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1              0.2                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.7           0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3             0.3            0.3            0.3            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1         0.1                                                                                                                                            1.6             1.4            1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5           0.4             0.4           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.4           2.3             2.2            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7            0.6            0.6            0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4            2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3             1.2            1.0            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8           0.9             1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4              1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6           0.6             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4             0.4           0.5             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.7            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3            0.3            0.3              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                  0.1                                                                                                                                         1.4             1.2            1.1             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4           0.4             0.5             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.1           2.0             1.9              1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6            0.5            0.5            0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6           2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9            1.0             1.2             1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7           0.7             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6            0.6             0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4             0.5             0.5            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1             0.4                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.6              0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8              0.6          0.5              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1                    0.1                                                                                                                                          1.3             1.1           1.0             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3             0.4                           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.9              1.8           1.7             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.5             1.4           1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1             1.2            1.3            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7            0.8            0.8              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6           0.7             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5            0.5            0.5            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7           0.6             0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.7             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1 0.1                 0.1                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.0           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.7             1.6            1.5             1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.6             1.2              1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1            1.3            1.5            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8              0.8           0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7           0.7             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1            0.5              0.5          0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                       0.2                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            0.6             0.6           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                         1.1             1.0            0.8             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            1.4            1.4            1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8             1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.2             1.3           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9           0.9             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7             0.7            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6            0.6              0.5           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0                               0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                                                           0.7            0.7            0.6             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                                                                                           1.2            1.1            0.9              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            1.3             1.3           1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1           1.3             1.4           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9            1.0            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7             0.8              0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.8           0.6             0.6           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0                                 0.1                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7             0.7           0.7             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                                                                                           1.2              1.0            0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3           1.3             1.3           1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5             0.9            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2            1.3            1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0           1.1             1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7           0.8             0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4           0.6             0.6             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1                                      0.2                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7             0.7            0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1              0.1                                                                                                                                         1.1             1.0            0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3           1.3             1.3              1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6             0.9           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3            1.4             1.3             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0           1.1             1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8            0.8            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             0.6            0.6            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1                                             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.7              0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1              0.1                                                                                                                                          1.1             1.0           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3              1.4           1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7             0.9           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3           1.4             1.4            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.0             1.1            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7             0.8           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            0.7            0.6            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.4                                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.7             0.7             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1                                                                                                                                           1.2            1.1             0.9           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.3             1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3            1.4            1.4            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.1              1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.8           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5            0.6            0.6            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                           1.2           1.0             0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3           1.3             1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6           0.9             1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3            1.4             1.5           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0           1.0             1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.8            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6            0.6              0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7            0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                           1.1           1.0             0.9              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.3             1.3           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8              1.0           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.3           1.5             1.6           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0            1.0            1.1            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.8              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7           0.7             0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7             0.7           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                           1.1              0.9           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3           1.3             1.3           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9             1.1            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.3             1.4            1.5            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9             1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7             0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.8              0.8           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7              0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2          0.5                                                                                                                                                           0.8             0.7           0.7             0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1                                                                                                                           1.2            1.1             1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3            1.4             1.3           1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.2            1.4            1.5            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            1.0             1.0           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7            0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7           0.8             0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7           0.7             0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1              0.2                                                                                                                                                                        0.7             0.7           0.7             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.1            1.0             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.6           1.6             1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.2            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.2              1.3           1.5             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9           1.0             1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8            0.8            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7            0.8            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8           0.8             0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.4                                                                                                                                                                        0.7             0.7            0.7             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.1            0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.9           1.7             1.5              1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.7           1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2             1.4            1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.0            1.1            1.1              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8              0.8           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7            0.8             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             1.0            0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2             0.6                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.7              0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.1           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.1              1.9           1.6             1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.1           2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.3            1.4            1.5             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.1              1.1           1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8           0.8             0.8           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2            1.1            1.0            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2             1.1                                                                                                                                                                          0.7           0.7             0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.1           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.2             2.0            1.6             1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.6             2.7              2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4             1.5           1.5             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.1             1.2            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9           0.8             0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4            1.2              1.0          0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            0.7             0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2                                                                                                                                         1.2             1.1              0.9           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.4            2.1            1.7             1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.4             3.1              2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4             1.5            1.4            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1            1.2            1.2             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9             0.8            0.8            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8              0.8           0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4            1.2              1.0           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7           0.7             0.7           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.1             0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.7             2.2           1.8             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.3           3.6             3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3            1.4            1.5            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0            1.1             1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9             0.8            0.7              0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.8             0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5           1.3             1.1           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4              0.8                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.8           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3                                                                                                                                           1.5              1.2            1.1            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                                                                                 3.5           2.9             2.2            1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.7            4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.3              1.4           1.6             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0           1.0             1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.8            0.8              0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8            0.8            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5           1.3             1.2             1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5             1.0                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.8            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4                                                                                                                                         1.4             1.2            1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2                                                                                                   3.4           2.8             2.2              1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.5              3.6           3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4             1.5           1.6             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0           1.1             1.1              1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9              0.8           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8            0.8             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4             1.3            1.2            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8              0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2              0.4                                                                                                                                          1.4             1.1           1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.3              2.7           2.1             1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                           2.4             4.0           3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4            1.6            1.7             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0              1.1           1.2             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0             0.9           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8           0.8             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4            1.3            1.2              1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8           0.7             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                          1.3             1.1           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.1             2.5            2.0             1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                                                            3.8             4.0            3.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.4            1.5             1.6           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0           1.0             1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1           1.0             0.9             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8             0.8           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.4            1.3            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3           1.4                                                                                                                                                                          0.8             0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.2                                                                                                                                           1.5           1.2             1.0            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                                                                3.4           2.8             2.3            1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.4             3.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3           1.5             1.6            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.5           1.1             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.1            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2           1.1             1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8             0.8            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.5              1.4           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3           1.8                                                                                                                                                                           0.8            0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                                                           1.4           1.1             1.0              0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.9            2.4             2.0           1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1                                                     2.1                3.1           3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3           1.5             1.6            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9              0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.1             1.8              1.2           0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.1             1.2           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.1            1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8             0.8             0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5           1.5             1.4           1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7             0.7           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1           0.2                                                                                                                                           1.3              1.1           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.4           2.1             1.8           1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                          2.0             2.7            2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4              1.5           1.6             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5             2.0              1.1           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1           1.2             1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.1            1.1              1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8           0.9             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5           1.4             1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7             0.7           0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5          1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.1              0.2                                                                                                                                         1.2             1.0            0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0           1.8             1.6              1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.1            2.3            2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5              1.5           1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.3           2.5             1.2           0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1           1.2             1.3            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2              1.1           1.0             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8            0.9             1.0           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5             1.4            1.3            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.1                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7             0.7              0.7           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.7           1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1               0.1              0.2                                                                                                                                          1.1             0.9           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.8            1.6             1.4             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.8             2.0           2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5            1.5            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.1           3.5             1.8           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1              1.2           1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1              1.1           1.0             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.8           0.9             1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5             1.4            1.3              1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7             0.7             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8           1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1                     0.1             0.3                                                                                                                                          1.0             0.9           0.8             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6              1.4            1.3            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2           1.5             1.7           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5             1.5           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.2           4.7              2.7           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1              1.2            1.3            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1             1.0             1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.8           0.9             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5            1.4            1.3              1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7            0.7             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8             1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1         0.1            0.1             0.5                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.8            0.8             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.4             1.3            1.2             1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0           1.3             1.5              1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5             1.5           1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.2           5.5             3.4              1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1            1.2            1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.0             1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9            0.9            1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5              1.4           1.3             1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7            0.7             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7            1.8            1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1            0.1            0.2             0.6                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.8              0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3             1.2           1.1             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0              1.2           1.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.6           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4           1.6             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.3             6.5           5.5             3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0            1.1             1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1             1.0            1.0            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8            0.9              0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5          1.4              1.3           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1                                              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7             0.7           0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.6            1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                           0.9              0.8           0.7             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2            1.2             1.1           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9              1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5              1.6          1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9             0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.1             5.5              4.3           2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.0           1.2             1.3           1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1            1.0            1.0              0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.8           0.9             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5           1.4             1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.7             0.7           0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5            1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                            0.9             0.8            0.7             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2           1.2             1.1              1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7           0.9             1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6              1.7           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.0           3.6             2.5           1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1           1.2             1.3            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1              1.0          1.0              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.8            0.9            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5           1.3             1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.7             0.7              0.7           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4           1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1             0.1              0.3                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.7            0.7             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2           1.2             1.1              1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7            0.9             1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.5            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.5           1.7             1.1           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1              1.2           1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2              1.1           1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.9            0.9             1.0           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5             1.4            1.3            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7             0.7             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.4           1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.2             0.4                                                                                                                                          0.8             0.7           0.7             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2              1.1           1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7           0.9             1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.6             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.4           0.7              0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.2              1.2            1.3            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2             1.1           1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.9           1.0             1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5            1.4            1.3              1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7            0.7            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4             1.5             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1            0.2            0.4                                                                                                                                          0.8             0.7           0.7             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.1            1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7           0.9             1.1              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.5             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0           0.3             0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2             1.3            1.4             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.1             1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.9            1.0            1.1              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4              1.3           1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.7            0.7             0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6            1.6            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.1            0.2                                                                                                                                                         0.8             0.7              0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2             1.1           1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8              1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6           0.2             0.2              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.3             1.3           1.5             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.0            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.4           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.0              1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3              1.3           1.2             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.7           0.8             0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7             1.7            1.6            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                                            0.8           0.7             0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2             1.1           1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9              1.1           1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4              0.2           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.3             1.4           1.5             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.0              0.9          0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.0           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0             1.0            1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3             1.2             1.2            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7           0.8             0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8            1.8            1.6              1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1           0.4                                                                                                                                                            0.8            0.8            0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2             1.1            1.0            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1             1.2            1.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5           0.3             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.2             1.3            1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.0              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            1.0            1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4             1.2             1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8             0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8              1.8           1.6             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.2              0.5                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.8             0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2             1.1              1.0           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.2             1.3           1.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4           0.2             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.3            1.4              1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0           0.9             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9             1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4             1.3            1.2            1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8              0.8            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.8             1.7           1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.2                                                                                                                                                                          0.8           0.7             0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                                                                                                            1.2           1.1             1.0            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.4           1.3             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0            1.3            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.4             1.6            1.7             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.9             0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5           0.4             0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.0            1.1            1.2              1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2              1.1           1.0             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.9             0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6             1.5            1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7             0.7              0.7           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5           1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                          1.1             0.9           0.8             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.6              1.4           1.3             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.4             1.6           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.5             1.7           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6           0.4             0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0              1.1           1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2              1.1           1.0             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.9             0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6             1.4            1.3              1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.6                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7           0.7             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4             1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                          1.0             0.9           0.8             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.7              1.5            1.3            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.9             2.0           1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.5             1.7           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.7           0.5              0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1             1.2            1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.1             1.0            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.9             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5            1.4            1.3              1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.0                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            0.7             0.7           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                         1.0             0.9            0.8             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.8             1.5            1.3             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.3             2.2             2.2              2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5             1.7            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.9              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9           0.6             0.3              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1            1.2            1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.1             1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.9             1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5              1.4           1.3             1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7            0.7             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1           0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                         1.0             0.9              0.8           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.9             1.6           1.4             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.0              2.9           2.5             2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6            1.7              1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9           0.9             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.2              0.7           0.3             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2             1.2           1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.1            1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9             1.0            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5             1.4           1.3             1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7           0.7             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3            1.5              1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.2           0.2             0.5                                                                                                                                            1.0           0.9             0.8            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.0             1.7           1.4             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.8             3.2            2.9            2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9           0.9             0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.8             1.4              0.7           0.2             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2             1.3            1.4            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.1              1.1           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9             1.0            1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4             1.3             1.3            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7           0.7             0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.6            1.6              1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3              0.4           1.0                                                                                                                                           1.0            0.9             0.8           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.1             1.7              1.4           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.3             2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.6             3.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.0            1.0              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4           1.5             1.5            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0           1.0             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.1           1.4             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1             1.2           1.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.2              1.1          1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8             0.9            0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7           1.7             1.5             1.4           1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.4           1.4                                                                                                                                                                          0.8           0.7             0.7              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.4                                                                                                                                           1.4            1.2            1.0            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.4             2.7           2.2             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.9              3.9             3.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0              1.0           1.1             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5           0.3              0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4            1.5             1.4           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             1.0            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.2             2.6           1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1             1.2              1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2            1.1              1.1           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8             0.9           0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8            1.7            1.5             1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.5                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8             0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3           0.3                                                                                                                                           1.4            1.2             1.0           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.3             2.7              2.1           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1             0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.0           4.1             3.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0              1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8           0.4             0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.4            1.5             1.5           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             0.9            0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.9             3.5           2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1             1.1             1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1           1.1             1.0           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8             0.9           0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7            1.5            1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.8              0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8            1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3            0.4             0.6                                                                                                                           1.3           1.1             1.0           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.1           2.6             2.0            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                                                                2.9           4.1             3.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.1             1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3              0.6           0.3             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5           1.6             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.9            0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.9              4.8           2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0            1.1            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1           1.1             1.0             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8             0.9            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6            1.4              1.4           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8             0.8            0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.7            1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3           0.4             1.4                                                                                                                           1.3           1.1             0.9              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.0            2.4             1.9           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                                   3.9              3.9           3.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0             1.1             1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.8              0.8           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5           1.7             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9              0.9           0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.9              5.8           3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1            1.2             1.3           1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1             1.0            1.0            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8             0.9              0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5            1.4              1.3           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.6            1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.2           0.3             2.0                                                                                                                           1.2              1.0           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.6            2.2             1.8           1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                     2.4              3.4             3.5           3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0            1.1            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9           0.5              0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.6              1.7           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9              0.9           0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.5             6.0              3.9           1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1           1.2             1.4            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.0            1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9           0.9             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5           1.3             1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5            1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1              0.5                                                                                                                                         1.1             1.0            0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.3           1.9             1.6              1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                              2.4           3.1             3.0            2.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.1              1.2          1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9           0.6              0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6             1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.8           4.9             3.1           1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1           1.2             1.4              1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.1            1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9            0.9             1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5            1.3            1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7             0.7              0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1              1.4           1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1           0.2             0.9                                                                                                                                         1.0             0.9            0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.0           1.7             1.4              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1                                                               2.1            2.5             2.4           2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0          1.1              1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7           0.5             0.3              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9             0.9             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.2           3.1             1.9           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2            1.2             1.3             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2              1.1           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9            1.0             1.0           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5             1.4            1.3            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7             0.7              0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.5            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1           0.2             1.3                                                                                                                                          1.0             0.8           0.8             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                                                                                                                                1.7              1.5           1.3             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.1           2.2             2.1           2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0           1.1             1.2              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5              0.3           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.2           1.5              0.9           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2              1.3            1.4            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2             1.1           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9           1.0             1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.3            1.3              1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7           0.8             0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5            1.5             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1            0.3                                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.8           0.7             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1 0.1                                                                                                                 1.7           1.5             1.3            1.2             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4             1.8           2.0             1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0           1.0             1.1              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4             0.3              0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.8             1.0           0.6              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3            1.3            1.4             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1             1.1             1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0           1.1             1.1              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3              1.3           1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7            0.8             0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5             1.6            1.6            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1             0.1           0.5                                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.8              0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.2            1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6              1.7           1.7             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             1.0            1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2             0.2           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9           0.9             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5           0.3             0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3             1.4           1.5             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.0            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.8            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0              1.1           1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3              1.3           1.2             1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7           0.8             0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.7            1.7            1.6            1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1             0.2           0.6                                                                                                                                                            0.8           0.7             0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                             1.3             1.2           1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4              1.5           1.5             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9            0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           0.9             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3              0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3             1.4           1.5             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.0            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0             1.0            1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3             1.2             1.1           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8           0.8             0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8            1.7            1.6              1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1             0.3              0.7                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.7             0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1                                                                                                                                               1.2             1.1           1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2             1.3            1.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              0.9          0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2             0.2           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3             1.4            1.5             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0            1.0              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1             0.9              0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.0             1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3            1.2             1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8              1.7           1.6             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.7             0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1         0.1                                                                                                                                         1.2             1.1              0.9           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1           0.1             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2            1.2            1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              0.9           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3             1.4             1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0           1.0             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8           0.6             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.0             1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2            1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8              0.8           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.7             1.6            1.5            1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Building #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.4                                                                                                                                           0.9            0.8             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3             1.2              1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0          1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.7             1.0           1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0              1.0           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.6            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             0.3           0.2              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.1             1.3              1.4            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1           1.0             1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9             0.9           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.3            1.2            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7              0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5            1.7            1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.2            0.4                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.8             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3             1.2              1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1              0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.7             1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.1           1.1             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.7           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.9            0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.6           0.4             0.3           0.2              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.2           1.3             1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1           1.0             1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9             0.9           1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.3            1.2            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7             0.8            0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4             1.6            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1              0.2           0.4                                                                                                                                           0.8           0.8             0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.3           1.2             1.1            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1          0.1              0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.8             1.0              1.2           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1             1.1             1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.7           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9              0.9          1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7           0.4             0.3           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.2            1.3             1.4           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1             1.0           1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9             1.0              1.0           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4            1.3              1.3           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7            0.8            0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4            1.5            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1           0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.7             0.7              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.2            1.2             1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3          1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.9          1.0              1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1            1.1            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1             0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               253 825 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.7              1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9              0.9           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8           0.5             0.2              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2           1.3             1.4           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2            1.1             1.1            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0             1.0             1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5              1.4           1.3             1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7             0.8           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.4            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1           0.1             0.3                                                                                                                                                         0.8              0.7           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3           1.1             1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1              0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.9           1.1             1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.2              1.2          1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             1.0           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9              0.4           0.2             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2           1.3             1.4            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.1            1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.1            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4           1.3             1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.8           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.5            1.5            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1              0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                                         0.8             0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3           1.1             1.0              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5              1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1             0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0           1.2             1.3            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.2              1.3           1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0             1.0             1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9             0.4           0.2             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.3            1.4            1.5              1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1              1.1          1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1             1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2            1.2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FF=4428 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8              0.9           0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.6             1.5            1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1           0.5                                                                                                                                                                         0.7            0.7             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                                                                                                            1.1           1.0             0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.1              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.3             1.3           1.3             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3             1.3           1.5             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.0             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1              0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Future Phase
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.0            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.8           0.8             0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.3             1.4              1.5           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1            1.1              1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0             1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4            1.3             1.2            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7              0.8           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.8           1.6             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1           0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.8             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3             1.2              1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5            1.7             1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.2             1.3           1.4             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2              1.2           1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.0            1.1              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8             0.4           0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2           1.3             1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1           1.0             1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.1             2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.9             1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.3            1.2            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8              0.8            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8            1.8             1.6            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1           0.1              0.3                                                                                                                                                         0.9           0.8             0.8           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.3           1.2             1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.6            1.8             2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.5             1.6              1.5          1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.3             1.4            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.0            1.1              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.3             0.6           0.3             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3            1.3             1.5           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.0            1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.1              2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.9             1.0            1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4            1.2              1.1           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8             0.8            0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8           1.8             1.6            1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1           0.2             0.5                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.8             0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.3            1.2             1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7          1.9              2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.9          1.8              1.7           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3             1.3             1.4            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.2             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0              1.1           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.0             0.9           0.5             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3            1.4             1.5           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.4              4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             1.0              1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3           1.2             1.1            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8             0.8           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7            1.7            1.5            1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1           0.2             0.8                                                                                                                                                         0.8              0.8           0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2             1.1           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8           2.0             2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.1           2.0             1.8            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3            1.4            1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4             0.3           0.2              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.3              2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.1           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.8              2.6           1.2             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4           1.4             1.6            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.0            1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.8           6.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0           1.0             1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3           1.2             1.1             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8             0.8           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6            1.6            1.5            1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                                                          0.8             0.7            0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                                                                                           1.4           1.2             1.0              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.8              2.0          2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.4           2.1             1.9            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3            1.4              1.5           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             0.3           0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8           2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0             1.1             1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.8             2.6           1.3             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4           1.5             1.7              1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0              1.0          1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.0              6.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0            1.0             1.1           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3            1.3             1.2            1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8             0.8              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3              1.5           1.5             1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2              0.4                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.7            0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.1             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2                                                                                                                                           1.4           1.2             1.0              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.0              2.2           2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.7           2.3             2.0           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3           1.4             1.6           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5              0.3           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.5           3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0            1.1            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.7             2.1           1.1             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.4              1.5           1.7             1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0              1.0           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.6             5.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0           1.1             1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3             1.2            1.1            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8             0.9             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5           1.5             1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.7           0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2           0.3                                                                                                                          1.4              1.2           1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.0             2.3           2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.1           2.6             2.1           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4           1.5             1.6             1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3              0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.3           3.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.1            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3           0.8              0.6           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4             1.5            1.7             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.0           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.2             3.3           2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1           1.2             1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2            1.2              1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8           0.9             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5             1.5            1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.7           0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2             0.3           0.4                                                                                                                           1.4             1.2            1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.9             2.1           2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.4              2.7          2.1              1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4             1.5           1.6             1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3             0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.9             3.9           3.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.1              1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8           0.6             0.5              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4            1.5            1.6             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0            1.0             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.0           2.5              1.7           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1            1.2            1.2              1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3              1.2           1.2             1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8            0.9             1.0           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5             1.5            1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.7              0.7           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.3             0.4            0.5                                                                                                                           1.4            1.2            1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.8              2.0           2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.3              2.8           2.2             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3             1.4            1.5            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3             0.2           0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.9             4.0              3.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0           1.1             1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6           0.5             0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.5             1.5           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.0            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.2           1.4              0.9           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2              1.2           1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2              1.2           1.1             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8           0.9             1.0           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5            1.4            1.3            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8           0.8             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.6             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4           0.5                                                                                                                                                         1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1           0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUBM TTALS REV S ONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3                                                                                                                          2.1             1.7            1.3             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5           1.7             1.8              2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2             0.2           0.2             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.1              3.8           3.2             2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1            1.2            1.3            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4             0.3           0.3              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              1.0           1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6              0.5           0.5             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4           1.5             1.5           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0            1.0            0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.7           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1           1.2             1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2           1.2             1.1             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.9           0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7            1.5            1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4           0.9                                                                                                                                                                         0.9              0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3                                                                                                                                           1.6           1.3             1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4           1.5             1.6              1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2              0.2           0.2             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.5           3.0             2.5            2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.1              1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3           0.3              0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                                        3.8           4.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5           0.5             0.4           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4           1.5             1.5              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            0.9            0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.7             1.4              0.8           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1            1.2             1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.1            1.0             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.9            0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.7           1.5             1.4           1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3              1.9                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.8            0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1           0.2                                                                                                                                           1.5           1.2             1.1              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3             1.4            1.5             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2             0.2           0.2             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.3           2.8             2.3           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0          1.0              1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4              0.4           0.3             0.3              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                          2.4             3.6           3.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9             0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6             0.5           0.5             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4            1.5             1.5             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9              0.9           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.4           1.1             0.8


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NO       DATE             DESCR PT ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0            1.1             1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1             1.1            1.0            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.9              0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8             1.6           1.5             1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1              0.2                                                                                                                                        1.4              1.2           1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.2            1.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.3             0.2           0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.0           2.4             2.0           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9           1.0             1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5             0.4              0.4           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1                                                           2.4              3.2           3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6             0.6           0.5              0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.5             1.6            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.9           0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.2           1.0             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0           1.1             1.2            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2            1.1            1.0            1.0              1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8           0.9             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7             1.5             1.4           1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                         1.3             1.1            1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.1            1.1              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3           0.3              0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.4              2.1          1.8              1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           0.9             1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5             0.5              0.4           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1                                                                  2.4             2.8           2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8              0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.7              0.7           0.6             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.5             1.7            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.1           1.2             1.3              1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.0            1.0              0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         06-05-2021         C TY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8            0.9             0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6            1.5             1.4            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8              0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                         1.2             1.0            0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0              1.0           1.1             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.3             0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.1              1.8           1.6             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6           0.5             0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                                                                      2.2             2.3              2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8          0.8              0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8             0.7           0.7             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.6             1.8           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9           0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.1           1.0          0.9              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.1              1.2           1.4             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1              1.0           1.0             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.9            0.9             1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5            1.3            1.3            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7          0.7              0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1           0.1             0.3                                                                                                                                         1.1             0.9           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.1              1.1          1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.3              0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.8             1.6           1.4             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9            0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5             0.5           0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                         1.5           1.9             2.0              2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.8             0.7           0.7             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.6             1.8           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.1           1.0             0.9              0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.1             1.2            1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1             1.1            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9           0.9             1.0              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5            1.3            1.3              1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7           0.7             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.4            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1            0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1           0.1             0.4                                                                                                                                         1.0             0.9           0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1             1.1              1.2           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.3             0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.6             1.4            1.3             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              0.9          1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6              0.5           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                             1.3              1.6           1.8             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9             0.8           0.7             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.6             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.8              0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2              1.1          1.0              0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.2            1.2            1.3             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1            1.1             1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9           1.0             1.1              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5             1.3           1.3             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.7             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.4              1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1           0.2             0.5                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.8              0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1            1.2             1.3           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.3             0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                 1.4             1.3           1.2             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              0.9           1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6             0.5              0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1             1.4           1.5              1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9             0.8           0.7              0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.6             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.8             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.4              1.3           1.2             1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.2             1.3           1.4             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.1            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9              1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4             1.3            1.3            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7           0.7             0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5            1.5              1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1              0.2           0.6                                                                                                                                           0.8           0.7             0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4             1.5           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.3              0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1 0.1                                                                                                                 1.3           1.2             1.2           1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.9           1.0             1.1             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7           0.6             0.5              0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0             1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8            0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.2           1.0              0.9           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.5            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8           0.8             0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.7           1.6             1.5           1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.3             1.4           1.5             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.0              1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0             1.1            1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3            1.2             1.2            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7           0.8             0.8              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.7           1.6             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1           0.1             0.3                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3            1.5              1.7           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.3             0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1                                                                                                                                       1.2          1.1              1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             1.0             1.0            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6           0.5             0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0             1.1           1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8              0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1             0.9           0.8             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.9             1.7           1.5              1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.3             1.4              1.5           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0            1.0              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.1          2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0             1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2            1.2            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7              0.8           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.7             1.7            1.6            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1           0.1             0.4                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.7             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4           1.6             1.9              2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3           0.3             0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1                                                                                                                                             1.1           1.1             1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            1.0            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6           0.5             0.4           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9             1.1           1.1             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8              0.8           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.2             1.0              0.8           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.3              2.0           1.7             1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2           1.3             1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0           0.9             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.5           2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2            1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7              0.8           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8            1.8             1.6            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.1            0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1           0.2             0.4                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.7             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5           1.7             2.0              2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3              0.3           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                                                 1.1           1.0             0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            1.0              1.1          1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6           0.5              0.4           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             1.0              1.1           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8             0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2           1.0             0.8           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8            0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.5             2.1              1.7           1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            1.4            1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            0.9            0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.8           3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             1.0            1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3            1.2              1.1           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8             0.8            0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8            1.7            1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1           0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                                         0.7           0.7             0.7              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5              1.8           2.1             2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                                                          1.0            0.9             0.9           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            1.0              1.1           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6           0.5             0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8           0.9             1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8             0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2           1.0             0.8           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8              0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.4          2.0              1.7           1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            1.4             1.6           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             0.9            0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0             1.0              1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3           1.1             1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.8           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7            1.6            1.4            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1           0.2                                                                                                                                                                         0.7              0.7           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5              1.8           2.1             2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.2           0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                                                           0.9           0.9             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9           1.0             1.1           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6              0.5          0.4              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7           0.8             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1           0.9              0.8           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.2           1.9             1.6           1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4           1.5             1.6           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9            0.9            0.9              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0           1.0             1.1            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.1            1.0             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8             0.8           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6            1.5              1.4           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                            0.1              0.2                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4             1.6           1.9              2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3              0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1                                                                                                                                        0.9           0.8             0.8              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           1.0             1.1             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6              0.5           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7            0.8             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1           0.9             0.8           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4           1.5             1.7              1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9            0.9              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.1             1.1           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.1            1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8             0.8              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5           1.5             1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                                  0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.3              1.5          1.6              1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3              0.2           0.2             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1                                                                                                                                        0.8              0.8           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             1.0            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             0.5           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7           0.8             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8          0.8              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8           0.8             0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4              1.5           1.7             1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9              0.9           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.1             1.2           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3            1.2            1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8             0.9              0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5            1.5            1.4             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1                                   0.1             0.3                                                                                                                                                                        0.7             0.7           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2             1.3              1.4          1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.2              0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                         0.8             0.8           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            1.0            1.0              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5             0.4           0.4              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8           0.9             0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4             1.6            1.7             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             0.9            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1           1.2             1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2            1.1              1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8           0.9             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5             1.5            1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1                                          0.2                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.7           0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1             1.2              1.3           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.2             0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1              0.1                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.8            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.9            1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5              0.4           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.0              1.0           1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5             0.7           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8              0.8           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5             1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.9             0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2           1.2             1.3              1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2              1.2           1.1             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8            0.9             1.0           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.6            1.5            1.4            1.3            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.7              0.7           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0            1.1             1.1           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.2             0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.8           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              0.9           0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6           0.5             0.4              0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1             1.1           1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8            0.8            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.8           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5             1.5           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2              1.3           1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2           1.2             1.1            1.1            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.9            0.9             1.0           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.7            1.5            1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7           0.7             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0            1.0             1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3             0.2           0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.8           0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.9           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5           0.5             0.4              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2             1.2            1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8            0.8              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9           1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5             1.4           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2             1.3            1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1            1.1             1.0            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9           0.9             1.0              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5              1.4           1.3             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7           0.7             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.8            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9            1.0              1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.2             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1              0.1          0.2              0.5                                                                                                                        0.9             0.8              0.8           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.9             0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4           0.4             0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2             1.2           1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8              0.8          0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7             1.0           1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5             1.4              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.8              0.8           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2            1.2            1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.0            1.0            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9           0.9             1.0              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5             1.4            1.3            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7            0.7             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7            1.8              1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9          0.9              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.2             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1             0.1           0.2                                                                                                                                           0.9           0.8             0.8           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.8            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4           0.4             0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3             1.2           1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8              0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.6           0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             1.3            1.4             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9           0.8             0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2             1.3           1.3             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.0            1.0            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.9              0.9           1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5            1.4             1.3            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.7           0.7             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.7          1.7              1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9           0.9             0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2              0.2           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1             0.1           0.4                                                                                                                                           0.9           0.8             0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8              0.8          0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4           0.3              0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4             1.2              1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5           0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5             1.7           1.7             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8            0.8              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.6            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.8            0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2             1.3           1.4             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.0              1.0           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9            1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.3            1.2            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.7           0.7             0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.6            1.7            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9              0.9          0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2             0.2           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1              0.2           0.6                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.8             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8              0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4           0.3             0.3              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                           1.5           1.3             1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6             0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.9             2.0           1.9             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8              0.8           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.7            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.9            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2             1.4              1.5           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0           1.0             0.9            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9             0.9           1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.3            1.2            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.7              0.7           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5             1.6            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9              0.9           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.2           1.0                                                                                                                                           0.8           0.7             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8           0.8             0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4           0.3             0.3              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5           1.3             1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5             0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.2             2.3              2.1           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8              0.8           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.8           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2           1.4             1.5            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.0            0.9             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9             1.0           1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.3              1.2           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.1              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7             0.7           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0            1.4            1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9             0.9           0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.7             0.7              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           0.9             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4              0.3           0.3             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.6           1.3              1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9              0.9          0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.9           2.5             2.2           1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8             0.9            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.8            0.8              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.2            1.3            1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1             1.0            0.9            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9             1.0              1.1           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4           1.3             1.2            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7             0.7            0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.4            1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9              0.9          0.9              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2              0.3          0.5                                                                                                                                                         0.8              0.7          0.7              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3             0.3           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6           1.3             1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5             0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.3           3.0             2.4            2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8             0.9            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8              0.8           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.2            1.3             1.5           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1            1.0            0.9            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0             1.1              1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3            1.3            1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7             0.7           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.5              1.5          1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0              0.9           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.4           1.1                                                                                                                                                         0.8             0.7           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             1.0            1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3             0.3           0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2                                                                                                                                        1.7           1.4             1.1              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           0.9             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5              0.5           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.7            3.3             2.6           2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.9            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3           1.4             1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.0            0.9              0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0           1.1             1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.3            1.2             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7             0.7           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.5          1.6              1.5            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0             1.0              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4             0.5                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.0            1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3              0.3           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2                                                                                                                                        1.7              1.3           1.1             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           0.9             1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             0.5           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.9           3.3             2.7           2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8              0.9           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.9           3.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8             0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.3           1.5             1.5              1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0              1.0           0.9             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0            1.1             1.2           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2            1.2            1.2            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7             0.7              0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.7            1.6            1.4             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1             1.0              1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3              0.5                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.7           0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1              1.1           1.1             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3              0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3                                                                                                                                        1.6              1.3           1.1             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             1.0            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             0.5           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.8           3.2             2.6              2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.9           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.1           4.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3              1.5           1.5             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0             0.9            0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.9            1.0             1.1           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2            1.1            1.1              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7             0.7              0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7             1.6            1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2            1.2             1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4             0.6                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.7           0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2             1.3           1.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.2              0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3                                                                                                                                        1.5             1.2           1.0              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.0            1.1              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5             0.4           0.4              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                                                                                  3.5              3.0           2.5             1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.9             0.9             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.4           4.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.2             1.4            1.5             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.9             0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8           0.9             1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2              1.1           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6           0.7             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.8            1.6            1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4            1.3              1.2          1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3             1.6                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.6              0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4             1.5             1.5            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.2             0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                        1.4              1.1           1.0             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.1            1.2              1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5             0.4           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.4             2.9           2.2             1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.9           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                         3.8              3.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8              0.8           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.2            1.4            1.5             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9            0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8           0.9             1.0              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2              1.1            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6            0.7             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.7            1.5            1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.6          1.5              1.3           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.3                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6          0.6              0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.6            1.7            1.7            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.2             0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                         1.3             1.1           0.9             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1              1.2           1.3             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5             0.4              0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.1             2.5            2.0             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8             0.9            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1                                                              2.4           3.3             3.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.2             1.4           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9            0.9            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8              0.9           1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1             1.0             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6            0.6             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6            1.4            1.3              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.9           1.7             1.5              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.5                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6           0.6             0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.9            2.0            2.1            2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.2              0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.0              0.8           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1             1.3           1.4             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5           0.4             0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.5             2.1            1.8             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.9            0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1                                                               2.4           3.0             2.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.3             1.5           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7             0.8            1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1            1.0             1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6           0.6             0.6              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6          1.5              1.4            1.3            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.2              1.8          1.6              1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1           0.1             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.9                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5           0.5             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.1            2.4              2.6           2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.2             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1           0.2                                                                                                                                        1.0             0.9              0.7           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1             1.3             1.5            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5             0.4           0.4             0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.1             1.8           1.5             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              0.9          0.9              1.0
                                                                                                                                                                            0.0                                                                      2.1          2.4              2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.2             1.4              1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9           0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.9             2.8           2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.8            0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.1            1.1            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5           0.6             0.6              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5            1.5            1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.3                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5           0.5             0.5           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.2           2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3              0.2           0.2             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                        0.0         0.0             0.1           0.2                                                                                                                                           0.9           0.8             0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2            1.3            1.6            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5             0.4           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.8             1.6           1.3             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              0.9           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0           2.1             2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.0             1.6           1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.1             1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9           0.8             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.0             2.9             2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.8           0.8             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.1              1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5              0.6           0.6             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5            1.4            1.3            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.1             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5           0.5             0.5           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.2           2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2              0.2           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0              0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                          0.8           0.7              0.6           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2            1.4              1.6          1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4           0.3              0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                          1.6           1.3             1.2           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9           1.0             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8           0.7             0.6           0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.3             1.7           1.8             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8            0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.6          1.3              1.1           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.6            2.2            1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.7           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2           1.1             1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5             0.6            0.6             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5            1.4            1.3            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4              0.4          0.4              0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2            1.4            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.0             2.3            2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2             0.2           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.1           0.4                                                                                                                                           0.7           0.6             0.5           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2            1.3              1.5           1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4           0.3             0.3              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                                              1.3           1.2             1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7           0.6              0.5           0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1          1.4              1.6           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8              0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.5           1.3             1.1           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.7              0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1           1.1             1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5             0.5           0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.3            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.8              1.6           1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4              0.4           0.4             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5            1.6            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.8             1.9            2.0              2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.1              0.6                                                                                                                                        0.6           0.5             0.5              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1           1.3             1.4           1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4           0.3             0.3              0.2
                                                                                                                                                                0.0 0.0                                                                                                             1.3             1.2            1.0            0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7           0.6              0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0           1.2             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8              0.8           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6           0.7             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.0            1.0             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5             0.5           0.5             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.3              1.2           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.6             1.4              1.3           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4             0.4            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7            1.6            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.5            1.6            1.7              1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1           0.2             0.6                                                                                                                                        0.6              0.5           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1           1.2             1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4             0.3           0.3             0.2
                                                                                                                                                            0.0         0.0                                                                                                                          1.0           0.9             0.8           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9              0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6             0.5              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9           1.1             1.1           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8             0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8            0.8              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5            0.6             0.6           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             1.0            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4             0.4              0.5           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3            1.2            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.3          1.2              1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4             0.4            0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7            1.8              1.6            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3              1.4           1.4             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                        0.0             0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                                        0.5              0.5           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0             1.1            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3             0.3           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                                                                                                        1.0           0.9             0.8           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9              0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6           0.5             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8          1.0              1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8             0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5            0.5             0.6           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0            0.9            0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4             0.4              0.4           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4            1.2            1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.2           1.1             1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.0            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4             0.4           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.8            1.8            1.6            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2              1.2           1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                        0.0             0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                                         0.5             0.4           0.4              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0             1.0            1.1              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3             0.3           0.2              0.2
                                                                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                             0.9           0.8             0.7              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           0.9             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5           0.5             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.9             1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5           0.5             0.5           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0              0.9           0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4           0.4             0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3            1.2            1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0           1.0             0.9           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4             0.4           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.7            1.7            1.5             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1             1.1             1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                        0.1              0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                                        0.5              0.4           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.0            1.0              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3              0.3           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                                                        0.8             0.7           0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           0.9             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7              0.8          0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8              0.8           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4           0.4             0.4              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9              0.9            0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3            0.3             0.4           0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2            1.1            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.9           0.9              0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4          0.3              0.3           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6            1.6            1.5             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0             1.0             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                               0.0                       0.1             0.1           0.3                                                                                                                                                         0.5             0.4           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              1.0           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.3           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                                                        0.7             0.7           0.6              0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.6             0.5            0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6              0.7           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.9            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3                0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3              0.4           0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.9            0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3             0.3           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0          0.0              0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3             0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5            1.4            1.3            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9            0.9              0.9           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.5              0.4          0.4              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9             1.0             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2              0.2           0.2             0.1
                                                                                                                                                           0.0           0.1             0.1                                                                                                                          0.6            0.6             0.6           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              0.9           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5           0.4             0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Express
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4           0.5             0.6           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.9             0.9             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3             0.4            0.8             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3           0.3             0.3              0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2              1.1           1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8              0.8          0.7              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT NO                       DRAWN BY
                                                                                                                                        0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5           0.4             0.4           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1            1.4            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.2             0.1           0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pony
                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                        0.6             0.6           0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9           0.9             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4           0.3             0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6              0.7           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9            0.9              0.9          0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2             0.3           0.4             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8             0.8             0.9            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8            0.8              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2            0.2            0.7            2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0             0.9            0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2             0.2           0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2            1.2            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8             0.8              0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5             0.4            0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.4              1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9              0.9           0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.2                                                                                                                                                        0.7              0.7           0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3             0.3           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.1                                                                                                                          0.7           0.7             0.8           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5          0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4            0.5             0.6           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8             0.8            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8             0.8           0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2            0.2             1.1           3.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0            0.9            0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2             0.2              0.2           0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2            1.2            1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8            0.7             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5             0.4           0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3            1.4            1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9              0.9           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                             0.1          0.2                                                                                                                                                         0.8             0.8           0.7              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3             0.3           0.2              0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ---                                 CR
                                                                                                                                               0.1          0.1                                                                                                                          0.8           0.9             0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           0.9             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5             0.5           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4           0.6             0.7           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2           0.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.9            0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3           0.2             0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1             1.1            1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7            0.7             0.7           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5             0.4           0.4             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4            1.3            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9             0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.2           0.2                                                                                                                                                        0.9             0.8            0.7             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9            0.9            0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3              0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                                                                                                        1.0             1.0           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9           0.9             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             0.4           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6              0.7          0.9              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8              0.8           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7           0.7             0.7            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2           0.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9              0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.3            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1            1.0            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7            0.7              0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6          0.5              0.4           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4            1.3            1.2             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9             0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.2           0.3                                                                                                                                                         1.0             0.9           0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9              1.0           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.2           1.2             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5             0.4           0.4              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8              1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8              0.8           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1              0.2           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8             0.8            0.8            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.3            0.3             0.2           0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0            0.9            0.9              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7           0.7             0.6              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6           0.5             0.5           0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3            1.2            1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9            0.9            0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.2             0.4                                                                                                                                                      1.1             1.0           0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0              1.0           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3             0.2              0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                  0.0          0.1                                                                                                                                        1.4             1.4            1.4             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9             0.9            1.0              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5              0.4           0.4             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1             1.3           1.4             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8           0.8             0.8             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2              0.1            0.3            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8            0.7             0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3           0.3             0.2           0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9              0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8              0.7          0.7              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7           0.6             0.5            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3            1.1            1.1            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0            0.9              0.9           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5           0.9                                                                                                                                                        1.0              0.9           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2             0.2           0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET T TLE
                                                                                                                                  0.0           0.0             0.1           0.2                                                                                                                          1.7           1.6             1.4           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0              1.0           1.1             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4              0.3           0.3             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.6           1.7              1.7           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9             0.9            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7           0.7             0.8            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1             0.3           0.6             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2              0.2           0.2             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            0.7             0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7             0.6           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0             0.0           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.6           0.5             0.4           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0            0.9            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9           0.8             0.8              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1              0.1           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5           1.0                                                                                                                                                                         1.0           0.9             0.8            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4            1.3             1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1            1.1              1.0          1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                  0.0           0.1             0.1           0.2                                                                                                                                        1.8             1.5              1.3           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1             1.2           1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3           0.3             0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.0             2.0           2.0             2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9            0.9            1.0              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5              0.4          0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.7             2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3            0.5            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            0.8            0.8             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1             0.1           0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7           0.7             0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2             0.2            0.2             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7             0.6           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.6           0.5             0.4              0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8            0.8            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9             0.9            0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4            1.0                                                                                                                                                                         1.1           1.0             0.8           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2            1.1            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3            1.2              1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2           0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                   0.0          0.1              0.1          0.1                                                                                                                                           1.9           1.6             1.4           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5            0.6            0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3             1.3             1.3            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.3             0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.5             2.5           2.4             2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3            0.3             0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9              1.0           1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5              0.4           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.8             2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1            0.2             0.2           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7             0.8            0.8            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6           0.6             0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2             0.2           0.2             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.6              0.5           0.4             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8            0.7             0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0             0.9            0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2           0.8             1.7                                                                                                                                                         1.2           1.0             0.9           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1            1.2              1.3            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0            1.0            0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4           1.3             1.2           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                   0.1          0.1              0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                          1.9           1.7             1.5            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6             0.7           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4            1.5            1.5            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.3              0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                                                      2.6           2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4           0.4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.9              3.1           2.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2           0.3             0.3              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.9            0.9              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SITE PHOTOMETRICS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1             0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6            0.6            0.6             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2           0.2             0.1              0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6            0.6              0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5           0.4             0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1             1.0           0.8             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.7            0.7            0.7            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9            0.8              0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1              0.1           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7          1.9                                                                                                                                                         1.2              1.1          0.9              0.8           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0             1.1            1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9            0.9            0.8            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5             1.4             1.2            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                    0.1          0.1           0.1             0.3                                                                                                                          2.0            1.8             1.7           1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7            0.8            0.8              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8              1.8          1.8              1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3           0.2             0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                      0.0          0.1                                                                                                                          3.8           3.0             2.8           2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4            0.5             0.5           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1             1.3            1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5           0.5             0.4           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2             0.2              0.3           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.8              0.9           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1            0.1            0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6            0.6            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2              0.2           0.2             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8           1.3             1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6             0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6            0.5             0.4           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0             0.9            0.8            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7            0.7            0.6              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0           0.8             0.7              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.4                                                                                                                                                                         1.1           0.9             0.8           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8             0.9           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8             0.8            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.7            1.5            1.3            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                    0.1           0.1             0.2           0.4             1.0                                                                                                                        1.9             1.7           1.5             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6              0.7           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.1              2.2           2.2             2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2             0.2              0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                      0.1          0.1                                                                                                                                        3.6             3.2            2.6             2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4           0.5             0.5           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.4            1.6            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4              0.4           0.3             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2           0.2             0.3            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8           0.8             0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1             0.1           0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.8            2.6            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6            0.6            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3              0.2           0.2             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9            1.6            2.5            4.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5            0.5             0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6           0.5             0.4           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8            0.8              0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6              0.6          0.6              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0           0.8             0.7              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.4           3.2             5.2                                                                                                                                                         1.2           1.0             0.9            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7             0.8           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7            0.7            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.9            1.6              1.4          1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                    0.1           0.2             0.3           0.6                                                                                                                                        2.0             1.8              1.6           1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6             0.6            0.6             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.3             2.7           2.6             2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2           0.2             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                         0.0          0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                        4.6             3.8           2.8             2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4           0.4             0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.4            1.7              2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4             0.4              0.3          0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2            0.3            0.3            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8            0.8            0.9             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2             0.2           0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.1             1.5            0.8            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6            0.6              0.7           0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0
                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.3             0.2            0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8             1.1           1.8             2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5            0.5            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7           0.6             0.4              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7             0.8            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6            0.6            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8            0.7             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.5              5.6           6.5                                                                                                                                          1.2            1.0             0.9           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7            0.7            0.7              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4           1.2             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                  0.2             0.4           0.7             1.6                                                                                                                           2.4           2.0             1.7           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6            0.6             0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2           0.2             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                         0.1          0.1           0.1              0.1                                                                                                                       5.0             3.6           2.9             2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4            0.5              0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.5           1.8             2.1           2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4          0.3              0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3             0.3           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            1.0            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8            0.9            1.1            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5
                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2              0.2           0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9            1.0            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6             0.7            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.4             1.2             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2           0.2             0.2           0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7             0.7           0.8             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5            0.5            0.5              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.9            2.5            2.1              1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6           0.5             0.4            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7            0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5            0.5             0.5            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.9                                                                                                                                                          0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.1             5.1           6.1                                                                                                                                                         1.1             0.9           0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5              0.6           0.6             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5            0.5            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                  0.3              0.4           0.7             1.5                                                                                                                                        2.1             1.8            1.5             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6           0.6             0.5           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.3             0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2           0.2             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                         0.1           0.1          0.1              0.2                                                                                                                                       3.9              2.9           2.6             2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4            0.5            0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2             1.2            1.1            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5           1.8             2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4           0.3             0.3           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3             0.3           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9            1.0            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.8            0.9              1.1           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7           0.6              0.5          0.5
                                                                                        0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2             0.2            0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7            0.8            0.8          0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6            0.7             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.4             1.1             1.0            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2           0.2             0.2              0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7            0.7            0.7             0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5              0.5           0.5             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.6              2.2           1.9             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5            0.4            0.4            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7             0.6           0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5            0.5            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.2            2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.4              4.6          4.7                                                                                                                                         1.0             0.9              0.8           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5             0.5            0.6             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5            0.5            0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4           0.7             1.1           2.0                                                                                                                           1.9             1.6           1.4             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5            0.5            0.5              0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.9            1.5            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3            0.4            0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2             0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                       0.1             0.1           0.2           0.3                                                                                                                          3.6             3.1           2.6             2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4            0.5             0.5           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0            1.0            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.4             1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3             0.3           0.2              0.2
                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3             0.4              0.4           0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8            0.8            0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8            0.9              1.0           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6              0.5           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.2             0.2           0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7            0.7            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.6            0.7            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.1            0.9            0.8              0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.3              0.2           0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7             0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5             0.5            0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.0           1.8             1.5             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0           0.0              0.0
                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5            0.4             0.3           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4            0.4            0.4              0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.7            1.9              2.1          2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.7             2.4           3.0                                                                                                                                           0.9           0.8             0.7           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5            0.6             0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.3             5.3            2.1            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4             0.4            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3              0.5          0.7              1.1                                                                                                                        1.7             1.4           1.3             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5           0.5             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            1.1            1.8            2.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.3            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                       0.1              0.1          0.1           0.2                                                                                                                          2.7             2.6            2.3             1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5             0.5           0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8            0.8            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3              0.3           0.2             0.2
                                                                                             0.0          0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4             0.4            0.4             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7             0.7            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.9             1.0             1.1           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6          0.5              0.4           0.4
                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3           0.3             0.3              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6            0.7            0.7              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0              0.9           0.7             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3           0.2             0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5             0.5            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.7             1.5            1.4            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1           0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4             0.3           0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6              0.6           0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.9            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4          0.4              0.4            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5            1.6              1.7           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7             0.9           1.4             2.0                                                                                                                                         0.7             0.6            0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5           0.5             0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.3            2.1            1.4            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4            0.4            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                    0.2             0.3           0.4             0.5                                                                                                                                        1.3              1.1           1.0             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5            0.5             0.5           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.9             1.3            2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.3            0.3             0.3            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1             0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                       0.1              0.1           0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                        2.0           2.0             1.7           1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5             0.5            0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3           0.2             0.2              0.2
                                                                                             0.0          0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.4            0.4            0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9            0.9             1.0            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5             0.4           0.4           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4            0.4             0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7            0.7             0.7            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6              0.7           0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8           0.7             0.6              0.5
                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3            0.3             0.3           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5            0.5            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.3            1.2              1.1          0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4             0.4              0.3           0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.0             1.1            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4            0.4            0.4             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.4             1.4           1.5             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4           0.6             1.3                                                                                                                                         0.6             0.6           0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5            0.5              0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.0            1.0            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3            0.3              0.3          0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.2           0.3             0.3           0.3                                                                                                                           1.1             0.9           0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4             0.5           0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2             0.1           0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                        0.1           0.1             0.1           0.2                                                                                                                          1.6           1.6             1.5              1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5             0.5            0.5            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3              0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                             0.0          0.0           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5           0.5             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6            0.6            0.6            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8            0.9            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5             0.4           0.3              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.5           0.5             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6             0.7            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.7            0.6             0.5
                                                                            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4             0.4           0.4             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6           0.6             0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2            1.2            1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5            0.5            0.5              0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.2            1.1              1.0           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5             0.4            0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6            0.6             0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9            1.0            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4             0.4            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.2             1.2             1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2           0.3             0.8           1.2                                                                                                                           0.6             0.5           0.5             0.5              0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5           0.5             0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8            0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.3            0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1           0.1              0.2           0.2                                                                                                                          0.9             0.8            0.7             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5             0.4            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2             0.2            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2              0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                         0.1          0.1             0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                           1.2           1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5            0.5            0.5             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3             0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                          0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6              0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6            0.6            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4              0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Future Phase
                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.6           0.6             0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6            0.5            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.6            2.4            5.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.7            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6             0.5           0.5              0.4
                                                                           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6           0.6             0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            0.9            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5             0.6            0.6            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9           0.8             0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6            0.6             0.6           0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6           0.6             0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4            0.4            0.5              0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1            1.1              1.0           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4              0.8                                                                                                                                                         0.6           0.6             0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5            0.6             0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3             0.3            0.3            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2           0.2              0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1                                                                                                                           0.5             0.5           0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5           0.5             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.7            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2            0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2             0.2              0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                       0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1                                                                                                                          0.7             0.7            0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5             0.5           0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7            0.7            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2             0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3             0.2            0.2             0.2
                                                                                                           0.0          0.0              0.1          0.1                                                                                                                                                                         0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7             0.6            0.6             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.6            1.1            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9             1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4             0.3           0.3             0.3
                                                                                 0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.8           0.8             0.7              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5            0.5            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3            2.1            3.6            4.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.8            0.8              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6              0.5           0.5             0.4
                                                                      0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8            0.8             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6            0.6            0.6            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6             0.6            0.6            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8             0.8            0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7             0.8              0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6             0.6             0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8            0.9            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4           0.4             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0          1.0              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2           0.2             0.2           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4           0.6                                                                                                                                                         0.7             0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6             0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.7            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3            0.3            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2              0.2           0.2             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1          0.1              0.1           0.2                                                                                                                          0.5              0.5           0.6             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5             0.5           0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.7             0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2            0.3             0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3             0.3           0.3             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1             0.1           0.1             0.1                                                                                                                           0.4           0.4             0.4           0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5              0.5           0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3           0.3             0.3              0.3
                                                                                                                            0.0          0.0           0.0             0.1                                                                                                                                                                       0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7           0.7             0.6           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6            0.6            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1            0.4            0.3            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4           0.3              0.3           0.3
                                                                 0.0             0.0          0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0             0.9             0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5            0.5             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9            1.2            1.4             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.8             0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5           0.5             0.4           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1             1.1           1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6            0.6            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6            0.6            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.8            0.7              0.7          0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9              1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8             0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4            0.5             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9             0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2              0.2          0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2            0.3                                                                                                                                                                         0.8           0.9             0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6            0.6            0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3            0.3              0.4           0.4             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9            0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3              0.3           0.3             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                           0.5           0.6             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6             0.6           0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.7            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3            0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4           0.4              0.4           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.0             0.0           0.1                                                                                                                                        0.3             0.3              0.4           0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6             0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3            0.2            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4              0.4           0.4             0.4           0.4
                                                                                                                            0.0          0.0              0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                       0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9           0.8             0.7              0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6            0.6            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6            0.4            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4           0.4             0.4           0.4
                                                                0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2            1.1             1.1           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5            0.5            0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7             0.7            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8            0.8            0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6              0.5           0.5          0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4             1.4            1.3             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6            0.6            0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8            0.8            0.8            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6            0.7              0.7           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.8          0.7              0.7           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.2            1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.7            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5            0.5            0.5            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9             0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4              0.3          0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2             0.2                                                                                                                                                         0.9           1.0             1.0              1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6           0.6             0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7            0.7            0.6             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4              0.4            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5             0.5           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0             0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                          0.5            0.7             0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7             0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.7            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3            0.3            0.4              0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6           0.6             0.6              0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                           0.2           0.3             0.3           0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8            0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.3             0.3            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6           0.6             0.6           0.6
                                                                                                                                          0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                      0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1            1.0             0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6             0.6            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4            0.4            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0              1.0           0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5              0.5             0.5           0.5
                                                                                 0.0          0.0              0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6            1.5             1.3           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7            0.6            0.6            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9             0.9            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.6           0.6           0.5             0.5
                                                               0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.8             1.8              1.8           1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7           0.8             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8             0.7              0.7           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.4             1.5           1.6             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7             0.7           0.7             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7            0.8            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5            0.5            0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9            0.9            0.9              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5             0.5           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                         1.0              1.1           1.2             1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7            0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4            0.5             0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7             0.6           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0             0.0           0.0             0.1                                                                                                                           0.5           0.6             0.8           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7              0.7           0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4            0.4            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8              0.8           0.8             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0             0.0           0.0              0.0                                                                                                                          0.2           0.2             0.3            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9           0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4            0.4             0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8           0.8              0.8           0.8
                                                                                                                                          0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2            1.1            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5            0.5            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0           1.0             1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7           0.7             0.7           0.7
                                                                                  0.0          0.0             0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.8             1.6            1.5            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6            0.6             0.6            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.7            0.7            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.1              1.1           1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7           0.7              0.7          0.7
                                                           0.0 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.3             2.3            2.2             2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7            0.7            0.7            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9            0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.9             1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9             0.8              0.8           0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.8           2.0             2.2              2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8            0.8            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.9            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7              0.7           0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0              1.0           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6           0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1             0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                           1.2            1.4            1.6            1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8           0.8             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7             0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6            0.6            0.6            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0           0.0             0.0              0.1                                                                                                                        0.6             0.8              0.9           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5            0.5            0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0           1.0             1.0           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                           0.2             0.2           0.3             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0             1.0              0.9           0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7            0.7            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5            0.5            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0              1.1           1.1             1.1
                                                                                                                                                           0.0          0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.1           1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.6            0.6            0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.2             1.1            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9             0.9           0.9             1.0
                                                         0.0                                   0.0             0.0           0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.0              1.7           1.5             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7            0.7            0.7             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9            0.8            0.8            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2            1.2              1.2           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9              0.8           0.8             0.8
                                                                     0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.6           2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9              0.9
Pr nted: 10/29/2020 7:16:58 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.0            3.0             2.9           2.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9            0.9          0.8              0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1            1.1             1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0             1.1            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0             0.9            0.9             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                                                                                                                                       2.0             2.1              2.3           2.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9             0.9             0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9            0.9            1.0            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8           0.8             0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8             0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0           0.1             0.1           0.1                                                                                                                           1.0             1.2            1.4             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0          0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                          0.4              0.5           0.7             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0            1.0            1.0             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6            0.6             0.6            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                       0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2              1.1           1.1             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7            0.7            0.7            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1              1.1           1.1           1.1
                                                         0.0                                                                              0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.6           1.4             1.3           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9            0.8             0.8            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3             1.3            1.2              1.2
                                                                                  0.0          0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.8           2.3             2.0            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9            0.9             0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2            1.1            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5           1.5             1.4             1.4
                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.5             3.5           3.3             3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1            1.1            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3            1.3            1.3            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3            1.4            1.4            1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1           0.1             0.2                                                                                                                                                         2.4              2.9            3.2            3.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1            1.1            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1             1.2            1.2            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.0             1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                           1.0           1.3             1.7           2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1            1.1            1.1             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9            1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8              0.9           0.9             0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1           1.0             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.5             0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2             1.1           1.1             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7            0.7            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1            1.1              1.1          1.1
                                                               0.0                                                                                                                                     0.0             0.0              0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.2            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.9            0.8             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8            0.8            0.8             0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2             1.2             1.2            1.2
                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.7           1.5             1.4              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0            0.9            0.9            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5            1.4            1.3              1.3
                                                                                  0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.2            2.6             2.2           2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.0            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.4            1.3            1.2            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.9            1.8            1.8             1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3            0.4                                                                                                                                                         4.0             4.1            3.9             3.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.3            1.2             1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6            1.6            1.6            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.6            1.7              1.8           1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0           0.1             0.1           0.2                                                                                                                           2.2             2.9            3.4             3.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.4            1.4            1.4            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3            1.3            1.4            1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1            1.2            1.3            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9
                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                         1.0             1.5              2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2             1.3            1.3            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1            1.1            1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9              1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1              1.1           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2            1.2            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9            0.9            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.8            0.8            0.9              0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2          1.2              1.1           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3            1.2             1.3           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9             0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3             1.2             1.2            1.2
                                                                                                                                                           0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6             1.4             1.3            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.1            1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2            1.1            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.8              1.6           1.5             1.4
                                                                                                   0.0          0.0          0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4              0.8                                                                                                                                                                        2.9             2.3           2.1             1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.8            1.6            1.5            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.3             2.3            2.1            2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1            0.1             0.2           0.3                                                                                                                           2.7             2.8              3.8            3.7            3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.7             1.6            1.5            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0            2.0             2.0            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.0           2.2             2.3            2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                           1.7           2.6             3.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.7            1.7            1.8            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.6            1.7            1.8            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3            1.5            1.6            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0
                                                                                 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4            1.4            1.5            1.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2            1.2            1.3            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.0            1.1            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.2           1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 These p ans draw ngs are he proper y o he
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2            1.3              1.2           1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0            1.0            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.9              0.9          0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.2           1.2             1.1              1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.2           1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1            1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0            1.0            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4            1.3            1.3            1.2
                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6             1.1           1.7                                                                                                                                           1.7              1.5            1.3            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2            1.1            1.1            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.6            1.4            1.3            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.1             1.9           1.7             1.6
                                                                                                   0.0          0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1             0.1            0.2             0.3                                                                                                                           2.7           2.5             2.2            2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.6            1.4            1.3             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.4            2.2            2.0            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.9            2.9            2.6              2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.1              0.1                                                                                                                                         1.1             2.5            2.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.2            2.1            1.9            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.4             2.5            2.6            2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.4            2.8            2.9             2.9
                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.1             2.2            2.2            2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.7            1.8            2.0            2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5            1.7              1.9           2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0          0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5             1.7           1.8             1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2            1.3            1.4            1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.1            1.2            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1             1.1           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2             1.2           1.3             1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0            1.1            1.1             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.9            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1           1.1             1.0              1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5            0.7             1.4                                                                                                                                         1.0             1.0           1.1             1.1              1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1            1.1            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0            1.0            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5            1.3              1.2           1.2
                                                                                                                                                            0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2             0.3              0.4           0.5                                                                                                                            1.3            1.2            1.1             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3            1.2            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.7            1.5            1.3            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.3             2.1             1.9            1.7
                                                                                               0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0            0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                         1.7              1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.9             1.7            1.5            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.9            2.4            2.1            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.4            3.4            3.2              2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.8            2.7            2.4            2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.1             3.2            3.1            3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.0             3.4            3.5            3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.5            2.8            2.9            2.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.1            2.3            2.6            3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.9             2.1            2.4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 reg s ered arch ec and may no be cop ed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.7             1.9           2.0             2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3            1.5            1.7            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1            1.2            1.4              1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0          1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6           0.8                                                                                                                                                          1.1            1.2            1.3             1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1            1.1            1.2             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8             0.8            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9            0.9             0.9           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4             0.3           0.3             0.4                                                                                                                           0.8              0.9           0.9             1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1            1.0            1.0            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0            0.9            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2              1.1           1.1             1.0
                                                                                                         0.0                                                0.0              0.0          0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2             0.3            0.3             0.3                                                                                                                                         0.7             0.8           0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.3            1.2            1.2            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6             1.3            1.2            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.2            1.9            1.7              1.4
                                                                                                                              0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1           0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.9             1.8            1.6            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.9            2.3            2.1            1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.9           3.5             3.0             2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.2            3.0            2.5            2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.7            3.7            3.6            3.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.7            4.0            4.1            4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.4            3.5            3.4          3.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.5            3.1             3.6            3.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.0            2.3             2.8            3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5             0.6                                                                                                                                                         2.0            2.3             2.5             3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6            1.8            2.1            2.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0              1.1           1.4             1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2             0.2           0.3             0.4                                                                                                                           1.1           1.2             1.5            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1            1.2            1.2            1.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6            0.7            0.8            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7              0.7          0.7              0.8
                                                                                                                 0.0                                                                                                                     0.0              0.0          0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2            0.1             0.1             0.1                                                                                                                           0.6            0.7            0.8            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            0.9            0.9            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8            0.7            0.6             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.9             0.8            0.8            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2            0.3             0.3           0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2            1.2            1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.6            1.3            1.1            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.8            1.5              1.2           1.0
                                                                                                                                 0.0           0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0             0.1              0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.9            1.7            1.5            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.1            2.6            2.2             1.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.3            2.9             2.4            2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.4            2.9             2.4            2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4.2            4.1            4.0            3.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.5              2.7           3.0             3.8


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 reproduced or used w hou h s wr en perm ss on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7                                                                                                                                                                        4.0            4.1            3.9            3.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.9            3.3            3.8            4.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.9            2.5            2.9            3.5
                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2              0.3            0.4            0.5                                                                                                                           2.3            2.9            3.3            3.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.5            1.8             2.1            2.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            1.1            1.4             1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3           0.2             0.2           0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1           0.1             0.1              0.2                                                                                                                         1.0            1.3            1.6             2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9            1.0            1.1            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5            0.6            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4           0.5             0.5           0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3             0.3              0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8            0.8            0.8            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.5            0.5            0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5              0.5          0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4             0.4           0.4              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0              0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.2            1.1            1.0            0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0            0.8            0.7            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2           0.9             0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4              0.4           0.4             0.4
                                                                                                                                               0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0             0.0            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0            1.7            1.5            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.2            2.0            1.6            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3          0.3              0.3           0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0                                                                                                                                                                        3.5            3.1            2.6            2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.6             3.6            3.2            2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3              0.3          0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4             0.5            0.7            0.8                                                                                                                          3.6            3.0            3.8            3.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.9            3.4            3.6            2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4            0.3              0.3           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1            0.1            0.2             0.3                                                                                                                          1.6            2.3            2.9            3.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.5            1.9            2.1            2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4             0.5             0.4            0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1           0.1              0.0          0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0            0.1             0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8            0.9            1.0             1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5              0.5           0.5             0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1            0.1             0.1           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.6            0.6            0.7            0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5             0.5            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3              0.3           0.3             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1             0.1              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.9             0.8            0.7            0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.3            0.4              0.4           0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1             0.1           0.2             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3                                                                                                                                                                                     1.5            1.2            1.1            1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2            0.2            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4            0.5            0.7            1.0                                                                                                                                        2.4            2.1            2.1            1.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1             0.1           0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1            0.2              0.3           0.3                                                                                                                                        1.1             1.8            3.0            2.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1              0.1          0.1              0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1           0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.2            0.2            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                              0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0              0.0          0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0              0.0            0.0            0.1            0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1             0.1            0.1             0.2           0.2             0.2           0.3             0.4            0.5            0.5            0.6            1.2            1.5            1.5            1.5            1.8            1.5             1.3            1.1            1.0            0.9            0.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.3            0.3            0.3             0.3            0.3            0.3            0.3            0.3            0.3            0.4            0.4            0.4            0.4             0.5            0.6            0.5            0.5            0.4            0.3            0.3            0.3            0.2            0.2            0.2             0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.1            0.1            0.1              0.1           0.1             0.2            0.2            0.3             0.3            0.3            0.3            0.2              0.1          0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1             0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1           0.1             0.1              0.1           0.1             0.0           0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0             0.1           0.1             0.1           0.1              0.2          0.2              0.2           0.2             0.1              0.1           0.1             0.1           0.0              0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N       E VRS B   B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5            0.4            0.4            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1            0.1              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5            0.6            0.6            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1             0.1             0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3             0.4            0.5            0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3            0.2            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2            0.2            0.1              0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                            0.0                                             0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4            0.4            0.3            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4            0.5            0.5             0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.1            0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1                                            0.1                                            0.1           0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                              0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2            0.3            0.4            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2            0.2            0.2            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0           0.0             0.1           0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                          0.1                              0.1           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1             0.1           0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1            0.1            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0                                                                                        0.0              0.0          0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2            0.2            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                        0.0                0.0           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0            0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1                             0.1            0.1                                            0.0           0.0                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1            0.1            0.1              0.1                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1            0.1             0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1             0.0            0.1            0.1                                                                                         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3              0.3            0.2            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0                                                                          0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0                                                                                        0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0             0.0              0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1            0.1             0.2             0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0                                                          0.0            0.0            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1            0.0            0.0             0.0                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2                                          0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1            0.1                           0.2                            0.2                           0.2            0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0           0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1            0.1            0.1                                                         0.1                            0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1                                                         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0             0.0              0.0          0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                                                         0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1            0.1                            0.1                                                         0.1            0.1            0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.1            0.1            0.1                                                                         0.1            0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Amended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1            0.0            0.1            0.1                                                                                       0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                           0.0                                          0.0            0.0              0.0           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0           0.0                                                          0.0                           0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0           0.0                                                                                           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0           0.0             0.0            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0                                           0.0                                            0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0          0.0              0.0           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                        0.0             0.0              0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0             0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0             0.0                           0.0                           0.0                            0.0             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0             0.0           0.0             0.0                                          0.0                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                                                        0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0             0.0                                                         0.0            0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SITE PHOTOMETRICS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lo 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1                                  O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lo 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lo 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E003    SCALE: 1" = 60 -0"
                                                                                                                                  Lo 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lo 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Curve o Sm h Ven ure LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lo 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Br ck Wa Proper es LLC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10 09 2020
                                 COPYR GHT © 2019 ARCO                           5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2                                       1
    EXHIBIT J
SUBDIVISION PLAT
      EXHIBIT K
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY
June 3rd, 2021

Scott Cooley, PE
Public Works Director/City Engineer
Draper City
1020 E. Pioneer Road
Draper, UT 84020

RE: ARCO Design Build 13000 South and Pony Express Road

Dear Scott,

The purpose of this letter is address Draper City’s concerns about the offset accesses along
Golden Harvest Road. There are two existing accesses to the American Preparatory Academy
(APA) on Golden Harvest Road.

The Arco Design build TIS showed two new accesses to the proposed development, the
westmost is approximately 80 feet to the west of the APA exit (the APA charter school has one
way counter-clockwise flow with an exit only to the west). While the accesses are supposed to
have 200 foot spacing, the TIS discussed the potential conflicts at these accesses and
determined that these were not Opposing Upstream Driveways as described in the (page 4-14
of the 2019 Draper City Transportation Master Plan). Therefore, the City Engineer has the
ability to waive the access spacing. The traffic study discussed why these accesses were not
Opposing Upstream Driveways in the TIS. “From the site plan, the proposed access is slightly
offset to the west from the existing access. This is typically not recommended, but there are
several factors in this study that make it acceptable. First, the School Access is in reality an
exit only as cars are not supposed to turn into this one-way circulation. Therefore, the school
access mostly operates as a right turn egress. Without left turn ingresses to the school and left
turn ingresses projected for the new access, the center median overlap that is caused by the
offset is not an issue.” (see Page 13, immediately below the Table Seven analysis).

Similarly, the APA Charter School’s eastmost access is offset approximately 120 feet to the
west of the proposed Arco’s eastmost access. This access combination was also determined not
to have Opposing Upstream Driveways. Per the study, “From the site plan, the proposed
access is slightly offset to the east from the existing access. This is typically not recommended,
but there are several factors in this study that make it acceptable. First, any congestion at the
existing Pony Express Center access is to the west of the access (in the morning school rush)
and therefore, it would not block the proposed access. The center median does not cause an
overlap for left turn ingresses for either access so the offset is not an issue.” (see Page 14,
immediately below the Table Eight analysis).
Based on the above discussion of how these offset accesses are oriented and that they do not
have Opposing Upstream Driveways, that the accesses spacing distances proposed in this site
plan are sufficient enough that conflicts are not an issue, and it is recommended that the
minimum access spacing can be waived to the actual distances provided in the site plan.


Sincerely,
Anderson Wahlen & Associates, Inc.



Colby Anderson, PE
Project Manager
            Traffic Impact Analysis
                      for
           EPG Pony Express Project




                13000 South and Pony Express Road

                          Draper City, Utah




                              March 2020
                                                    3/6/20




                              Prepared by:

Anderson Wahlen Associates
 2010 North Redwood Road
 Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
   Phone: (801) 521-8529
   Fax: (801) 521-9551
                                            EPG Pony Express Project-
                                 13000 South and Pony Express Drive Traffic Study




                                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                         page

 I. Introduction and Summary ........................................................................................................1

 II. Proposed Project ........................................................................................................................1

 III. Study Area Conditions ...............................................................................................................1
      A. Roadways and Intersections .................................................................................................1
      B. Existing Traffic Data ............................................................................................................4



 IV. Projected Traffic ........................................................................................................................6
     A. Trip Generation .....................................................................................................................6
     B. Origin/Destination and Trip Distribution ..............................................................................7


 V. Traffic Analysis.........................................................................................................................11
    A. Intersection Analysis ..........................................................................................................11


 VI. Conclusions/Recommendations ..............................................................................................15




Anderson Wahlen and Associates                                                    Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
                                 EPG Pony Express Project-
                      13000 South and Pony Express Drive Traffic Study




                                           LIST OF TABLES
                                                                                                              page

 Table One         AM Peak Development Trip Generation ...........................................................6
 Table Two         PM Peak Development Trip Generation ............................................................7
 Table Three       Daily Weekday Development Trip Generation .................................................7
 Table Four        Intersection LOS-Delay Relationship Access……………….. ........................11
 Table Five        AM/PM Peak Period Intersection Analysis –
                   Delay/LOS Evaluation– Lone Peak Pkwy and Golden Harvest Road ...........12
 Table Six         AM/PM Peak Period Intersection Analysis –
                   Delay/LOS Evaluation – Pony Express Drive and Golden Harvest Road.......12
 Table Seven       AM/PM Peak Period Intersection Analysis – Delay/LOS Evaluation –
                   American Preparatory School Access and Golden Harvest Drive...................13
 Table Eight       AM/PM Peak Period Intersection Analysis – Delay/LOS Evaluation –
                   Pony Express Center Access and Golden Harvest Drive.................................14
 Table Nine        AM/PM Peak Period Intersection Analysis – Delay/LOS Evaluation –
                   Furniture Store Access and Pony Express Drive .............................................14




Anderson Wahlen and Associates                                  Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
                                         EPG Pony Express Project-
                              13000 South and Pony Express Drive Traffic Study




                                                     LIST OF FIGURES
                                                                                                                                page

 Figure One - Project Site Location ..................................................................................................2
 Figure Two - Conceptual Site Plan ..................................................................................................3
 Figure Three - Existing AM/PM Peak Hour Traffic Counts ...........................................................5
 Figure Four – Site Generated Traffic ...............................................................................................9
 Figure Five - Total Traffic (Site Generated Plus Existing)............................................................10




Anderson Wahlen and Associates                                               Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
 I.   Introduction and Summary

 The proposed development site is located at approximately 13000 South and Pony Express Drive in
 Draper, Utah. The site has frontage along Golden Harvest Road from approximately Lone Peak Parkway
 to Pony Express Drive. Access will be on Golden Harvest Road (two proposed accesses) and Pony
 Express Drive (three proposed accesses). The current site is approximately 22 single family residential
 homes/lots. The site is planned as the home of the new EPG Pony Express Project, which includes a light
 industrial building and a furniture store.

 Trip projection and traffic analysis in this report was performed for the AM and PM peak hours.

 II. Proposed Project

 The EPG Pony Express Project at completion is conceptually planned to include the following land uses:
       • A 253,825 square foot warehouse
       • A 125,700 square foot furniture store

 III. Study Area Conditions

 A. Roadways and Intersections

 The Lone Peak Parkway and Golden Harvest Road intersection is fully developed with three lanes in each
 direction on Lone Peak Parkway and one lane in each direction on Golden Harvest Road (westbound
 traffic has a left turn pocket).

 Lone Peak Parkway has a 35 mph speed limit in this area. During the AM Peak Hour (from
 approximately 7:40 to 8:20 a.m.) a crossing guard activates a school crossing that reduces the speed limit
 to a school zone of 20 mph. Lone Peak Parkway has two lanes northbound, but one of these lanes turns
 into a northbound right turn lane (i.e., drop lane) at the intersection with Golden Harvest Road. There
 appears to be an existing striping/signing issue with this northbound “Right Lane must Turn
 Right” area as vehicles often have not merged until nearly at the intersection. This appears to be an
 immediate potential safety issue as this sudden merging has accident potential. It is recommended that
 Draper City review/modify the signing/striping plan at this intersection regardless of whether the
 proposed development is approved. UDOT Standard Drawing, ST-6 Intersection Pavement Markings
 (Mandatory Right Turn Lane Detail) has been included in the appendix to this report. It shows that
 additional signage and an 8” Lane Drop Stripe could be considered. Also included is a similar detail from
 UDOT Standard Drawing ST-11 for Bicycle Lane Pavement Markings.

 The Pony Express Drive and Golden Harvest Road intersection is also part of the study area. This
 intersection is a tee intersection (with Pony Express Drive paralleling I-15). It has one lane in each
 direction along Pony Express Drive (with room for a center median or a wide shoulder with new
 development) and one lane in each direction on Golden Harvest Road. Pony Express Drive has a speed
 limit of 40 mph. Golden Harvest Road has a 25 mph speed limit.

 Figure One shows the location of the development. Figure Two shows the conceptual site plan. The
 proposed accesses on Golden Harvest do not line up exactly with the existing access across the street. The
 report will discuss this with recommendations. There are three proposed access along Pony Express
 Drive. For simplicity, these will be analyzed as a single access point. This is worst case analysis from a
 traffic perspective.


                                                     1



Anderson Wahlen and Associates                               Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
 B. Existing Traffic Data

 Traffic counts were made on Tuesday, February 11, 2020 from 7:00 to 9:00 AM and from 4:00 to 6:00
 PM at Lone Peak/Golden Harvest and Pony Express/Golden Harvest. The peak hour was based on Lone
 Peak/Golden Harvest as it is the busiest and most critical intersection. The peak hours were 7:30 to 8:30
 a.m. and 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. The same peak hour was used for all intersections. Supplemental counts for
 along Golden Harvest Road were made at the access to American Preparatory Academy (westmost
 existing access) and Pony Express Center (eastmost existing access) on Tuesday, February 25, 2020. The
 AM Peak Hour reflects the school traffic as school starts at 8:15. The PM Peak hour does not reflect
 school traffic as school is over at 4:00 p.m. Traffic studies look at the peak hours of commuter traffic as
 ITE Trip projections are made relative to the peak hour adjacent traffic. Wheatfield Way and Wheatfield
 Circle have existing traffic that will be removed from the intersections. This traffic was not counted and it
 was observed to be fairly low volumes. Figure Three shows the peak hour existing traffic counts.

 It should be mentioned that the traffic counts showed congestion related to American Preparatory
 Academy during the AM Peak Hour. The southbound left turn on Lone Peak Parkway had as much as a
 seven-car queue for approximately one minute. At approximately 8:10 a.m., spillback occurred from the
 Pony Express Center access (from vehicles entering the school dropoff areas). While this spillback
 blocked Golden Harvest Road for about a minute, there were not vehicles in the area, that were not school
 related, at this time. The eastbound left turn on Golden Harvest (into the Pony Express Center) had
 several queues of seven vehicles around this same time. It was also observed that some vehicles on Lone
 Peak Parkway avoid the southbound left turn at Lone Peak/Golden Harvest by cutting through the
 American Preparatory Supplementary parking that is under the power corridor. Intersection counts can be
 seen in Appendix A.




                                                       4



Anderson Wahlen and Associates                                 Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
 IV. Projected Traffic

     A. Trip Generation

     The Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation (10th Edition) is typically used to
     estimate trips for the land uses.

     The EPG Pony Express Project at completion is conceptually planned to include the following land
     uses:

         •   A 253,825 square foot warehouse
         •   A 125,700 square foot furniture store

     For the building closest to the canal, a warehouse land use was not felt to be the most representative.
     In ITE, Warehousing (ITE Land Use 150) is a lower trip generator than would be expected with the
     amount of parking spaces and truck docks. Based on previous studies performed in Utah by AWA,
     where more shift/trucking data was available, it was felt that General Light Industrial (ITE Land Use
     110) is a better predictor of the trips generated by this type of facility. There are a number of studies
     cited for Land Use 110 and a fitted curve equation can be used to calculate the trips. The fitted curve
     equation is shown as an asterisk to each table below. The appendix to the study shows the ITE data,
     including the fitted curve equations and a plot of the curve/studies.

     ITE Land Use 890 for a Furniture Store will be used for the building fronting along Pony Express
     Drive.

     Tables One and Two show the AM and PM peak hour total trips generated. Table Three shows the
     weekday daily trips.

                                   EPG Pony Express Project Traffic Study
                                               Table One
                                   AM Peak Development Trip Generation
             Facility                Facility    ITE        AM        AM      AM      AM       AM       AM
                                      Size       Land       Peak      Peak     %       %        In      Out
                                   (1,000 SF)    Use        Trip      Trips    In     Out
                                                 Code       Rate
   General Light Industrial          253.8        110        *         89     88%     12%      78       11
   Building
   Furniture Store                   125.7        890       0.26       33     71%     29%       23      10
   Total                                                              122                      101      21
             *   Ln (AM Peak Hour) = 0.74 (Ln(Area in thousand sf) + 0.39




                                                        6



Anderson Wahlen and Associates                                   Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
                                       EPG Pony Express Project Traffic Study
                                                   Table Two
                                       PM Peak Development Trip Generation
              Facility                  Facility      ITE         PM            PM        PM       PM     PM      PM
                                         Size         Land        Peak         Peak        %        %      In     Out
                                      (1,000 SF)      Use         Trip         Trips       In      Out
                                                      Code        Rate
   General Light Industrial             253.8          110            *         70       13%      87%      9       61
   Building
   Furniture Store                      125.7          890         0.52         65       47%      53%      31      34
   Total                                                                       135                         40      75
              *    Ln (PM Peak Hour) = 0.69 (Ln(Area in thousand sf) + 0.43

                                       EPG Pony Express Project Traffic Study
                                                    Table Three
                                        Daily Development Trip Generation
              Facility                  Facility      ITE        Daily      Daily      Daily    Daily    Daily    Daily
                                         Size         Land       Trip       Trips       %        %        In       Out
                                      (1,000 SF)      Use        Rate                   In       Out
                                                      Code
   General Light Industrial             253.8         110*        *         1,020      50%      50%      510      510
   Building
   Furniture Store                      125.7         890        6.3         792       50%      50%      396      396
   Total                                                                    1,812                        906      906
              *    Daily Trips = 3.79 (Area in thousand sf) + 57.96

     The daily traffic is not used in the intersection analyses, but it was listed here as it is a good comparison for
     other potential zoning densities. Other potential zoning densities are listed below:

     •   The site is approximately 26 acres and could support 312 RM2 units (12 units per acre) or 468 multi-family
         units (18 units per acre).
              o If a single family residential trip generation of 9.44 trips per day is used for the hypothetical RM2,
                   it would generate 2,945 trips per day (63% higher than the proposed development).
              o If a trip rate of 7.32 trips per day is used for the hypothetical multi-family, then 3,425 trips per day
                   would be generated (89% higher than the proposed development).
     •   Office space square footage would vary due to potential densities, but ITE Land Use 750 Office Park had
         potential trip rates per acre. Based on an average trip rate of 195.11 and 26 acres, this land use would
         generate 5,072 trips (180% higher than the proposed development).

     B. Origin/Destination and Trip Distribution

     Origin-Destination assumptions were based the project’s proximity to the freeway and Lone Peak
     Parkway. Based on the existing traffic counts it was assumed that of the inbound traffic that 50
     percent is from the north and 50 percent is from the south. For the outbound traffic, 67 percent is
     assumed to go to the north and 33 percent to the south. Based on these origin/destination assumptions
     the trip distribution assumptions are listed below. It was assumed that employees of the new
     businesses would recognize that the Lone Peak Parkway and Golden Harvest Intersection has some
     school related congestion during the AM Peak Hour, so some will use Pony Express Drive to avoid
     this intersection:
                                                             7



Anderson Wahlen and Associates                                            Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
     General Light Industrial Building
        • Inbound (50 percent North, 50 percent South)
                o AM - Distribute half of traffic to Lone Peak Parkway and half to Pony Express Drive
                o PM – Inbound traffic through Lone Peak Parkway/Golden Harvest Intersection
        • Outbound (67 percent North, 33 percent South)
                o AM – Northbound uses Lone Peak Parkway/Golden Harvest Intersection, traffic from
                     the south uses Pony Express Drive
                o PM – Northbound uses Lone Peak Parkway/Golden Harvest Intersection. Half of the
                     traffic from the south uses Pony Express Drive, the other half uses Lone Peak
                     Parkway and Golden Harvest Intersection.


     Furniture Building
         • Inbound (50 percent North, 50 percent South)
                 o AM – Half of north traffic uses Lone Peak Parkway and half uses Pony Express
                     Drive, traffic from the south uses Pony Express Drive
                 o PM –Half of traffic uses Lone Peak Parkway and half uses Pony Express Drive
         • Outbound (67 percent North, 33 percent South)
                 o AM – All uses Pony Express Drive
                 o PM – Half of north traffic uses Lone Peak Parkway and half uses Pony Express
                     Drive, traffic from the south uses Pony Express Drive

     The above distributions were assigned to each land use individually and then added together to obtain
     the site generated traffic for that alternative.

     Figure Four shows the site generated AM/PM Peak Hour traffic. Figure Five shows the total AM/PM
     Peak Hour traffic (existing plus site generated).




                                                     8



Anderson Wahlen and Associates                               Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
 V. Traffic Analysis

 A. Intersection Analysis

 The unsignalized accesses and intersections are analyzed using the Synchro software to evaluate the
 impacts of the project on the surrounding traffic network. Table Four shows the Level of Service delay
 ranges for intersections as defined in the Highway Capacity Manual.




                              EPG Pony Express Project Traffic Study
                                            Table Four
                               Intersection LOS-Delay Relationship


              Level of Service          Unsignalized                  Signalized
                                     Stopped Delay per            Stopped Delay per
                                        Vehicle (sec)                Vehicle (sec)
                       A                    < 10.0                       < 10.0
                       B              > 10.0 and < 15.0            > 10.0 and < 20.0
                       C              > 15.0 and < 25.0            > 20.0 and < 35.0
                       D              > 25.0 and < 35.0            > 35.0 and < 55.0
                       E              > 35.0 and < 50.0            > 55.0 and < 80.0
                       F                    > 50.0                       > 80.0



 Table Five shows the results of the Synchro Analysis for Lone Peak Parkway and Golden Harvest Road
 for the AM and PM Peak Hours. For the AM Peak Hour, the actual peak hour factor for each movement
 was used to simulate the intensity of the school traffic (much of the school traffic arrives 15 minutes
 before school starts instead of spread over an entire hour). For the PM Peak Hour, a peak hour factor of
 0.88 was used for this intersection (consistent with the traffic counts). It should also be noted that 3
 pedestrian crossed the eastbound and southbound traffic during the AM Peak Hour.




                                                     11



Anderson Wahlen and Associates                               Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
                                  EPG Pony Express Project Traffic Study
                                              Table Five
                               Lone Peak Parkway and Golden Harvest Road
                                HCM AM/PM Peak - Delay/LOS Evaluation
                 Delay / LOS                                  AM     AM     PM           PM
                 (in sec)                                   Existing With Existing       With
                                                                     Site                Site
                 Northbound Left                             7.5/A   7.5/A   8.1/A       8.1/A
                 Eastbound Approach                         36.0/E   46.0/E 18.1/C      20.9/C
                 Westbound Left                             28.9/D 34.9/D 18.8/C        20.4/C
                 Westbound Right                            16.5/C 17.2/C 10.9/B        11.6/B
                 Southbound Left                             9.0/A   9.1/A   8.2/A       8.2/A


 It can be seen that the eastbound approach is most affected by the school traffic during the AM Peak
 Hour. This is because the southbound left turns at this intersection are high enough that it is difficult for
 the eastbound left turns to utilize the intersection. This is typically for only 15 to 30 minutes in the
 morning. The additional trips from the development do add to the southbound left turns, which affect the
 eastbound traffic more than other movements. It can be seen that during the PM Peak Hour when school
 traffic is not an issue, that the impacts of the proposed development are not significant and that all
 movements are LOS C or better.

 There is adequate storage space for the projected queuing at this intersection.

 Table Six shows the results of the Synchro Analysis for Pony Express Drive and Golden Harvest Road for
 the AM and PM Peak Hours. The peak hour factor used for this intersection was 0.74 for the AM and
 0.92 for the PM. The AM Peak Hour at this intersection is also affected by school traffic and is
 represented by the lower (or more intense) peak hour factor as shown above.

                                  EPG Pony Express Project Traffic Study
                                                Table Six
                               Pony Express Drive and Golden Harvest Road
                                HCM AM/PM Peak - Delay/LOS Evaluation

                      Delay / LOS                       AM     AM     PM             PM
                      (in sec)                        Existing With Existing         With
                                                               Site                  Site
                      Northbound Left                  7.5/A     7.5/A   7.3/A       7.4/A
                      Eastbound Left                   10.3/B 10.3/B     8.8/A       8.8/B


 It can be seen that there is little impact due to the proposed development at this intersection and that all
 movements are at LOS B or better.

 There is adequate storage space for the projected queuing at this intersection.



                                                       12



Anderson Wahlen and Associates                                   Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
 Table Seven shows the results of the Synchro Analysis for American Preparatory School Access
 (westmost) and Golden Harvest Road for the AM and PM Peak Hours. An AM Peak Hour Factor of 0.49
 and a PM Peak Hour Factor of 0.88 was used for this intersection. This was based on the peak hour traffic
 counts. For the future development access, a Peak Hour Factor of 0.92 was assumed. Also, for the future
 proposed accesses, a conservative analysis where the accesses are considered to operate as a single four-
 legged access was used.


                              EPG Pony Express Project Traffic Study
                                           Table Seven
                    American Preparatory School Access and Golden Harvest Road
                            HCM AM/PM Peak - Delay/LOS Evaluation

                   Delay / LOS                          AM     AM     PM            PM
                   (in sec)                           Existing With Existing        With
                                                               Site                 Site
                   Northbound Left                         N/A   15.5/C   N/A       9.4/A
                   Eastbound Left                       0.0/A     0.0/A   7.3/A     7.3/A
                   Westbound Left                          N/A    8.1/A   N/A       0.0/A
                   Southbound Left                     10.2/B 10.1/B      8.5/A     8.6/A


 This intersection operates at LOS C or better and has little impact based on the proposed development.
 From the site plan, the proposed access is slightly offset to the west from the existing access. This is
 typically not recommended, but there are several factors in this study that make it acceptable. First, the
 School Access is in reality an exit only as cars are not supposed to turn into this one-way circulation.
 Therefore, the school access mostly operates as a right turn egress. Without left turn ingresses to the
 school and left turn ingresses projected for the new access, the center median overlap that is caused by the
 offset is not an issue.

 There is adequate storage space for the projected queuing at this intersection.

 Table Eight shows the results of the Synchro Analysis for Pony Express Center Access (eastmost) and
 Golden Harvest Road for the AM and PM Peak Hours. An AM Peak Hour Factor of 0.64 and a PM Peak
 Hour Factor of 0.88 was used for this intersection. This was based on the peak hour traffic counts. For
 the future development access, a Peak Hour Factor of 0.92 was assumed. Also, for the future proposed
 accesses, a conservative analysis where the accesses are considered to operate as a single four-legged
 access was used.




                                                      13



Anderson Wahlen and Associates                                   Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
                               EPG Pony Express Project Traffic Study
                                             Table Eight
                         Pony Express Center Access and Golden Harvest Road
                             HCM AM/PM Peak - Delay/LOS Evaluation

                  Delay / LOS                          AM     AM     PM            PM
                  (in sec)                           Existing With Existing        With
                                                              Site                 Site
                  Northbound Left                         N/A    0.0/A   N/A       9.0/A
                  Eastbound Left                       7.8/A     7.8/A   7.2/A     7.2/A
                  Westbound Left                          N/A    0.0/A   N/A       0.0/A
                  Southbound Left                      9.8/A    10.0/B   8.5/A     8.4/A


 This intersection operates at LOS B or better and has little impact based on the proposed development.
 From the site plan, the proposed access is slightly offset to the east from the existing access. This is
 typically not recommended, but there are several factors in this study that make it acceptable. First, any
 congestion at the existing Pony Express Center access is to the west of the access (in the morning school
 rush) and therefore, it would not block the proposed access. The center median does not cause an overlap
 for left turn ingresses for either access so the offset is not an issue.

 Other than the above mentioned school congestion that occurs for eastbound left turns into this access,
 there is adequate storage space for the projected queuing at this intersection.

 Table Nine shows the results of the Synchro Analysis for Furniture Store Access and Pony Express Drive
 for the AM and PM Peak Hours. The peak hour factor used for this intersection was based on Pony
 Express/Golden Harvest - 0.74 for the AM and 0.92 for the PM. While three access points are proposed
 for Pony Express Drive, the analysis assumes a worst case traffic analysis of a single access point.

                               EPG Pony Express Project Traffic Study
                                             Table Nine
                            Furniture Store Access and Pony Express Drive
                             HCM AM/PM Peak - Delay/LOS Evaluation

                  Delay / LOS                          AM     AM     PM            PM
                  (in sec)                           Existing With Existing        With
                                                              Site                 Site
                  Northbound Left                         N/A    7.5/A   N/A       7.4/A
                  Eastbound Left                          N/A   10.4/B   N/A       9.0/A


 This intersection operates at LOS B or better and has little impact based on the proposed development.
 There is adequate storage space for the projected queuing at this intersection.




                                                     14



Anderson Wahlen and Associates                                  Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
 VI. Conclusions/Recommendations
 VII.

 The study shows that the Lone Peak Parkway and Golden Harvest Road intersection will not have a
 significant impact from the proposed development. The analysis section of this report discusses in detail
 the existing impact of the school traffic that causes some congestion for approximately 15 minutes during
 the AM Peak Hour.

 There appears to be an existing striping/signing issue with this northbound right turn at the Lone
 Peak/Golden Harvest intersection. This “Right Lane must Turn Right” area has existing conflicts as
 vehicles often have not merged until nearly at the intersection. This issue and suggested improvements are
 discussed in the introduction section of the report.

 The study shows that the Pony Express Drive and Golden Harvest Road intersection will operate at LOS
 B or better with the proposed development.

 The study shows that the American Preparatory Academy Access and Golden Harvest Road intersection
 will operate at LOS C or better with the proposed development. The analysis section of this report
 discusses why the offset of the proposed access is not an issue.

 The study shows that the Pony Express Center Access and Golden Harvest Road intersection will operate
 at LOS B or better with the proposed development. The analysis section of this report discusses why the
 offset of the proposed access is not an issue.

 The study shows that the Furniture Store Accesses and Pony Express Drive intersections will operate at
 LOS A or better with the proposed development.

 Other potential zoning densities and their daily traffic generation was generated for the report and
 summarized below (as a reference, the proposed EPG Pony Express Project was projected to generate
 1,812 trips per day). Please see the trip generation section of the report for density assumptions and trip
 rates by land use:
     • Single family residential trip generation would generate 2,945 trips per day (63% higher than the
          proposed development).
     • Multi-family residential trip generation would generate 3,425 trips per day (89% higher than the
          proposed development).
     • Office Park would generate 5,072 trips (180% higher than the proposed development).




                                                      15



Anderson Wahlen and Associates                                Traffic Impact Study - EPG Pony Express Project
                     WEEKDAY PEAK HOUR VOLUMES
INTERSECTION:               PK HR VOLUME:             927                                                                           NORTH
N-S STREET:
        Lone Peak Parkway PHF:                        0.85
E-W STREET:
        Golden Harvest Road PEAK HOUR:                                                 6          89       75
                             FROM:     TO:
                             7:30 AM 8:30 AM
COUNT DATE:
        2/11/2020
NOTES:                                                                   19                                                    95

COUNT TIME:                     Golden Harvest Road                       1                                                    2
FROM:    7:00 AM
TO:      9:00 AM                                                          3                                                    43



                                                                                       1         495       98

Weekday Traffic                                                                            Lone Peak Parkway
COUNT DATA INPUT:
    TIME PERIOD            Southbound                        Westbound             Northbound                      Eastbound         TOTAL
 FROM:       TO:      L         T       R         L              T       R     L        T         R            L       T       R    VOLUMES
 7:00 AM   7:15 AM    10       15       2         1              0       3     0        85        3            3       0       1      123
 7:15 AM   7:30 AM    9        10       2         1              0       2     0        97        4            7       0       0      132
 7:30 AM   7:45 AM    13       18       3         0              0       5     1       140        10           5       1       1      197
 7:45 AM   8:00 AM    25       25       2         6              0       22    0       121        25           9       0       0      235
 8:00 AM   8:15 AM    25       17       1         22             2       46    0       109        48           2       0       2      274
 8:15 AM   8:30 AM    12       29       0         15             0       22    0       125        15           3       0       0      221
 8:30 AM   8:45 AM    4        35       1         6              1       17    1       109        7            3       2       0      186
 8:45 AM   9:00 AM    3        26       1         4              0       6     0       145        5            5       0       0      195

WEEKDAY HOURLY TOTALS:
   TIME PERIOD             Southbound                        Westbound             Northbound                      Eastbound         TOTAL
 FROM:      TO:     L           T       R         L              T         R   L        T          R        L          T       R    VOLUMES
7:00 AM   8:00 AM  57          68       9        8              0         32   1      443         42       24          1       2      687
7:15 AM   8:15 AM  72          70       8        29             2         75   1      467         87       23          1       3      838
7:30 AM   8:30 AM  75          89       6        43             2         95   1      495         98       19          1       3      927
7:45 AM   8:45 AM  66         106       4        49             3        107   1      464         95       17          2       2      916
8:00 AM   9:00 AM  44         107       3        47             3         91   1      488         75       13          2       2      876

*NOTE* PHF IS BASED ON 15 MIN. PEAK WITHIN THE PEAK HOUR.
                     WEEKDAY PEAK HOUR VOLUMES
INTERSECTION:               PK HR VOLUME:             812                                                                          NORTH
N-S STREET:
        Lone Peak Parkway PHF:                        0.88
E-W STREET:
        Golden Harvest Road PEAK HOUR:                                               21         350       16
                             FROM:     TO:
                             4:30 PM 5:30 PM
COUNT DATE:
        2/11/2020
NOTES:                                                                   12                                                   32

COUNT TIME:                     Golden Harvest Road                      1                                                    0
FROM:    4:00 PM
TO:      6:00 PM                                                         3                                                    14



                                                                                      1         359       3

Weekday Traffic                                                                           Lone Peak Parkway
COUNT DATA INPUT:
    TIME PERIOD            Southbound                        Westbound            Northbound                      Eastbound         TOTAL
 FROM:       TO:      L         T       R         L              T       R    L        T         R            L       T       R    VOLUMES
 4:00 PM   4:15 PM    3         70      6         9              0       13   0       79         3            8       2       0      193
 4:15 PM   4:30 PM    3         70      5         3              0       8    0       60         0            1       0       0      150
 4:30 PM   4:45 PM    5         67      6         8              0       12   0       87         0            3       1       2      191
 4:45 PM   5:00 PM    4         86      4         1              0       11   0       90         3            5       0       0      204
 5:00 PM   5:15 PM    6        109      4         4              0       6    0       97         0            4       0       1      231
 5:15 PM   5:30 PM    1         88      7         1              0       3    1       85         0            0       0       0      186
 5:30 PM   5:45 PM    4         75      1         7              0       4    3       90         2            3       0       0      189
 5:45 PM   6:00 PM    3         77      8         0              0       4    0       70         3            7       0       1      173

WEEKDAY HOURLY TOTALS:
   TIME PERIOD             Southbound                        Westbound            Northbound                      Eastbound         TOTAL
 FROM:      TO:     L           T        R        L              T        R   L        T         R         L          T       R    VOLUMES
4:00 PM   5:00 PM  15         293       21       21             0        44   0      316         6        17          3       2      738
4:15 PM   5:15 PM  18         332       19       16             0        37   0      334         3        13          1       3      776
4:30 PM   5:30 PM  16         350       21       14             0        32   1      359         3        12          1       3      812
4:45 PM   5:45 PM  15         358       16       13             0        24   4      362         5        12          0       1      810
5:00 PM   6:00 PM  14         349       20       12             0        17   4      342         5        14          0       2      779

*NOTE* PHF IS BASED ON 15 MIN. PEAK WITHIN THE PEAK HOUR.
                     WEEKDAY PEAK HOUR VOLUMES
INTERSECTION:               PK HR VOLUME:             315                                                                       NORTH
N-S STREET:
        Pony Express        PHF:                      0.74
E-W STREET:
        Golden Harvest Road PEAK HOUR:                                                11        65        0
                             FROM:     TO:
                             7:30 AM 8:30 AM
COUNT DATE:
        2/11/2020
NOTES:                                                                   12                                                0

COUNT TIME:                     Golden Harvest Road                      0                                                 0
FROM:    7:00 AM
TO:      9:00 AM                                                         12                                                0



                                                                                      33        182       0

Weekday Traffic                                                                            Pony Express
COUNT DATA INPUT:
    TIME PERIOD            Southbound                        Westbound             Northbound                  Eastbound         TOTAL
 FROM:       TO:      L         T       R         L              T       R    L         T        R        L        T       R    VOLUMES
 7:00 AM   7:15 AM    X         3       0         X             X        X    1        20        X        0        X       0       24
 7:15 AM   7:30 AM    X         4       2         X             X        X    6        19        X        0        X       2       33
 7:30 AM   7:45 AM    X         5       2         X             X        X    3        29        X        3        X       0       42
 7:45 AM   8:00 AM    X        17       3         X             X        X    15       62        X        0        X       2       99
 5:00 PM   5:15 PM    X        27       4         X             X        X    12       56        X        4        X       3      106
 5:15 PM   5:30 PM    X        16       2         X             X        X    3        35        X        5        X       7       68
 5:30 PM   5:45 PM    X         8       0         X             X        X    0        15        X        4        X       1       28
 5:45 PM   6:00 PM    X         9       0         X             X        X    1         9        X        0        X       2       21

WEEKDAY HOURLY TOTALS:
   TIME PERIOD             Southbound                        Westbound             Northbound                  Eastbound         TOTAL
 FROM:      TO:    L            T        R        L              T       R     L        T        R         L       T        R   VOLUMES
7:00 AM   8:00 AM  0           29       7         0             0        0    25      130        0        3        0       4      198
7:15 AM   8:15 AM  0           53       11        0             0        0    36      166        0        7        0       7      280
7:30 AM   8:30 AM  0           65       11        0             0        0    33      182        0        12       0       12     315
7:45 AM   8:45 AM  0           68       9         0             0        0    30      168        0        13       0       13     301
8:00 AM   9:00 AM  0           60       6         0             0        0    16      115        0        13       0       13     223

*NOTE* PHF IS BASED ON 15 MIN. PEAK WITHIN THE PEAK HOUR.
                     WEEKDAY PEAK HOUR VOLUMES
INTERSECTION:               PK HR VOLUME:             129                                                                   NORTH
N-S STREET:
        Pony Express        PHF:                      0.92
E-W STREET:
        Golden Harvest Road PEAK HOUR:                                               1        59        0
                             FROM:     TO:
                             4:30 PM 5:30 PM
COUNT DATE:
        2/11/2020
NOTES:                                                                   2                                              0

COUNT TIME:                     Golden Harvest Road                      0                                              0
FROM:    4:00 PM
TO:      6:00 PM                                                         6                                              0



                                                                                     3        58        0

Weekday Traffic                                                                          Pony Express
COUNT DATA INPUT:
    TIME PERIOD            Southbound                        Westbound           Northbound                 Eastbound        TOTAL
 FROM:       TO:      L         T       R         L              T       R   L        T       R         L       T       R   VOLUMES
 4:00 PM   4:15 PM    X        23       1         X             X        X   2       23       X         3       X       4     56
 4:15 PM   4:30 PM    X        17       2         X             X        X   0       17       X         0       X       1     37
 4:30 PM   4:45 PM    X         9       0         X             X        X   0       18       X         1       X       2     30
 4:45 PM   5:00 PM    X        15       0         X             X        X   2       15       X         0       X       1     33
 5:00 PM   5:15 PM    X        20       0         X             X        X   1       12       X         0       X       2     35
 5:15 PM   5:30 PM    X        15       1         X             X        X   0       13       X         1       X       1     31
 5:30 PM   5:45 PM    X         4       1         X             X        X   1       13       X         0       X       0     19
 5:45 PM   6:00 PM    X        22       0         X             X        X   0       10       X         2       X       2     36

WEEKDAY HOURLY TOTALS:
   TIME PERIOD             Southbound                        Westbound           Northbound                 Eastbound        TOTAL
 FROM:      TO:    L            T       R         L              T       R   L        T       R         L       T       R   VOLUMES
4:00 PM   5:00 PM  0           64       3         0             0        0   4       73       0         4       0       8     156
4:15 PM   5:15 PM  0           61       2         0             0        0   3       62       0         1       0       6     135
4:30 PM   5:30 PM  0           59       1         0             0        0   3       58       0         2       0       6     129
4:45 PM   5:45 PM  0           54       2         0             0        0   4       53       0         1       0       4     118
5:00 PM   6:00 PM  0           61       2         0             0        0   2       48       0         3       0       5     121

*NOTE* PHF IS BASED ON 15 MIN. PEAK WITHIN THE PEAK HOUR.
                     WEEKDAY PEAK HOUR VOLUMES
INTERSECTION:               PK HR VOLUME:              93                                                                  NORTH
N-S STREET:
        APA School          PHF:                      0.49
E-W STREET:
        Golden Harvest Road PEAK HOUR:                                              84        0        8
                             FROM:     TO:
                             7:30 AM 8:30 AM
COUNT DATE:
        2/27/2020
NOTES:                                                                   0                                             1

COUNT TIME:                     Golden Harvest Road                      0                                             0
FROM:    7:00 AM
TO:      9:00 AM                                                         0                                             0



                                                                                     0        0        0

Weekday Traffic                                                                           APA School
COUNT DATA INPUT:
    TIME PERIOD            Southbound                        Westbound           Northbound                Eastbound        TOTAL
 FROM:       TO:      L         T       R         L              T       R   L        T       R        L       T       R   VOLUMES
 7:00 AM   7:15 AM              X                 X             X            X        X       X                X       X      0
 7:15 AM   7:30 AM              X                 X             X            X        X       X                X       X      0
 7:30 AM   7:45 AM    1         X       10        X             X        0   X        X       X        0       X       X     11
 7:45 AM   8:00 AM    3         X       21        X             X        0   X        X       X        0       X       X     24
 5:00 PM   5:15 PM    3         X       44        X             X        0   X        X       X        0       X       X     47
 5:15 PM   5:30 PM    1         X       9         X             X        1   X        X       X        0       X       X     11
 5:30 PM   5:45 PM              X                 X             X            X        X       X                X       X      0
 5:45 PM   6:00 PM              X                 X             X            X        X       X                X       X      0

WEEKDAY HOURLY TOTALS:
   TIME PERIOD             Southbound                        Westbound           Northbound                Eastbound        TOTAL
 FROM:      TO:    L            T        R        L              T       R   L        T       R        L       T       R   VOLUMES
7:00 AM   8:00 AM  4           0        31        0             0        0   0       0        0        0       0       0     35
7:15 AM   8:15 AM  7           0        75        0             0        0   0       0        0        0       0       0     82
7:30 AM   8:30 AM  8           0        84        0             0        1   0       0        0        0       0       0     93
7:45 AM   8:45 AM  7           0        74        0             0        1   0       0        0        0       0       0     82
8:00 AM   9:00 AM  4           0        53        0             0        1   0       0        0        0       0       0     58

*NOTE* PHF IS BASED ON 15 MIN. PEAK WITHIN THE PEAK HOUR.
                     WEEKDAY PEAK HOUR VOLUMES
INTERSECTION:               PK HR VOLUME:               5                                                                  NORTH
N-S STREET:
        APA School          PHF:                      0.42
E-W STREET:
        Golden Harvest Road PEAK HOUR:                                               4        0        0
                             FROM:     TO:
                             4:30 PM 5:30 PM
COUNT DATE:
        2/25/2020
NOTES:                                                                   1                                             0

COUNT TIME:                     Golden Harvest Road                      0                                             0
FROM:    4:00 PM
TO:      6:00 PM                                                         0                                             0



                                                                                     0        0        0

Weekday Traffic                                                                           APA School
COUNT DATA INPUT:
    TIME PERIOD            Southbound                        Westbound           Northbound                Eastbound        TOTAL
 FROM:       TO:      L         T       R         L              T       R   L        T       R        L       T       R   VOLUMES
 4:00 PM   4:15 PM              X                 X             X            X        X       X                X       X      0
 4:15 PM   4:30 PM              X                 X             X            X        X       X                X       X      0
 4:30 PM   4:45 PM    0         X       2         X             X        0   X        X       X        0       X       X      2
 4:45 PM   5:00 PM    0         X       2         X             X        0   X        X       X        1       X       X      3
 5:00 PM   5:15 PM    0         X       0         X             X        0   X        X       X        0       X       X      0
 5:15 PM   5:30 PM    0         X       0         X             X        0   X        X       X        0       X       X      0
 5:30 PM   5:45 PM              X                 X             X            X        X       X                X       X      0
 5:45 PM   6:00 PM              X                 X             X            X        X       X                X       X      0

WEEKDAY HOURLY TOTALS:
   TIME PERIOD             Southbound                        Westbound           Northbound                Eastbound        TOTAL
 FROM:      TO:    L            T       R         L              T       R   L        T       R        L       T       R   VOLUMES
4:00 PM   5:00 PM  0           0        4         0             0        0   0       0        0        1       0       0      5
4:15 PM   5:15 PM  0           0        4         0             0        0   0       0        0        1       0       0      5
4:30 PM   5:30 PM  0           0        4         0             0        0   0       0        0        1       0       0      5
4:45 PM   5:45 PM  0           0        2         0             0        0   0       0        0        1       0       0      3
5:00 PM   6:00 PM  0           0        0         0             0        0   0       0        0        0       0       0      0

*NOTE* PHF IS BASED ON 15 MIN. PEAK WITHIN THE PEAK HOUR.
                     WEEKDAY PEAK HOUR VOLUMES
INTERSECTION:               PK HR VOLUME:             260                                                                           NORTH
N-S STREET:
        Pony Exp. Center    PHF:                      0.64
E-W STREET:
        Golden Harvest Road PEAK HOUR:                                                56          0           10
                             FROM:     TO:
                             7:30 AM 8:30 AM
COUNT DATE:
        2/27/2020
NOTES:                                                                   154                                                   40

COUNT TIME:                     Golden Harvest Road                       0                                                    0
FROM:    7:00 AM
TO:      9:00 AM                                                          0                                                    0



                                                                                       0          0           0

Weekday Traffic                                                                            Pony Exp. Center
COUNT DATA INPUT:
    TIME PERIOD            Southbound                        Westbound             Northbound                      Eastbound         TOTAL
 FROM:       TO:      L         T       R         L              T        R    L        T         R           L        T       R    VOLUMES
 7:00 AM   7:15 AM              X                 X             X              X        X         X                    X       X       0
 7:15 AM   7:30 AM              X                 X             X              X        X         X                    X       X       0
 7:30 AM   7:45 AM    1         X       4         X             X        3     X        X         X           20       X       X       28
 7:45 AM   8:00 AM    1         X       6         X             X        7     X        X         X           39       X       X       53
 5:00 PM   5:15 PM    1         X       11        X             X        20    X        X         X           70       X       X      102
 5:15 PM   5:30 PM    7         X       35        X             X        10    X        X         X           25       X       X       77
 5:30 PM   5:45 PM              X                 X             X              X        X         X                    X       X       0
 5:45 PM   6:00 PM              X                 X             X              X        X         X                    X       X       0

WEEKDAY HOURLY TOTALS:
   TIME PERIOD             Southbound                        Westbound             Northbound                      Eastbound         TOTAL
 FROM:      TO:     L           T        R        L              T        R    L        T         R         L          T       R    VOLUMES
7:00 AM   8:00 AM  2           0        10        0             0        10    0       0          0        59          0       0       81
7:15 AM   8:15 AM  3           0        21        0             0        30    0       0          0       129          0       0      183
7:30 AM   8:30 AM  10          0        56        0             0        40    0       0          0       154          0       0      260
7:45 AM   8:45 AM  9           0        52        0             0        37    0       0          0       134          0       0      232
8:00 AM   9:00 AM  8           0        46        0             0        30    0       0          0        95          0       0      179

*NOTE* PHF IS BASED ON 15 MIN. PEAK WITHIN THE PEAK HOUR.
                     WEEKDAY PEAK HOUR VOLUMES
INTERSECTION:               PK HR VOLUME:              39                                                                       NORTH
N-S STREET:
        Pony Exp. Center    PHF:                      0.57
E-W STREET:
        Golden Harvest Road PEAK HOUR:                                              30          0           3
                             FROM:     TO:
                             4:30 PM 5:30 PM
COUNT DATE:
        2/25/2020
NOTES:                                                                   6                                                  0

COUNT TIME:                     Golden Harvest Road                      0                                                  0
FROM:    4:00 PM
TO:      6:00 PM                                                         0                                                  0



                                                                                     0          0           0

Weekday Traffic                                                                          Pony Exp. Center
COUNT DATA INPUT:
    TIME PERIOD            Southbound                        Westbound           Northbound                     Eastbound        TOTAL
 FROM:       TO:      L         T       R         L              T       R   L        T         R           L       T       R   VOLUMES
 4:00 PM   4:15 PM              X                 X             X            X        X         X                   X       X      0
 4:15 PM   4:30 PM              X                 X             X            X        X         X                   X       X      0
 4:30 PM   4:45 PM    1         X       14        X             X        0   X        X         X           2       X       X     17
 4:45 PM   5:00 PM    1         X       7         X             X        0   X        X         X           0       X       X      8
 5:00 PM   5:15 PM    1         X       6         X             X        0   X        X         X           2       X       X      9
 5:15 PM   5:30 PM    0         X       3         X             X        0   X        X         X           2       X       X      5
 5:30 PM   5:45 PM              X                 X             X            X        X         X                   X       X      0
 5:45 PM   6:00 PM              X                 X             X            X        X         X                   X       X      0

WEEKDAY HOURLY TOTALS:
   TIME PERIOD             Southbound                        Westbound           Northbound                     Eastbound        TOTAL
 FROM:      TO:    L            T        R        L              T       R   L        T         R           L       T       R   VOLUMES
4:00 PM   5:00 PM  2           0        21        0             0        0   0       0          0           2       0       0     25
4:15 PM   5:15 PM  3           0        27        0             0        0   0       0          0           4       0       0     34
4:30 PM   5:30 PM  3           0        30        0             0        0   0       0          0           6       0       0     39
4:45 PM   5:45 PM  2           0        16        0             0        0   0       0          0           4       0       0     22
5:00 PM   6:00 PM  1           0        9         0             0        0   0       0          0           4       0       0     14

*NOTE* PHF IS BASED ON 15 MIN. PEAK WITHIN THE PEAK HOUR.
HCM 2010 TWSC
1: Golden Harvest & Lone Peak Parkway                                                                            3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           6.3


Movement                           EBL EBT EBR            WBL WBT WBR              NBL NBT NBR         SBL SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                           19    1    3           43    2   95              1 495    98        75   89    6
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                3    0    3            0    0    0              0    0    0         3    0    3
Sign Control                       Stop Stop Stop         Stop Stop Stop           Free Free Free      Free Free Free
RT Channelized                        -    - None            -    - None              -    - None         -    - None
Storage Length                        -    -    -          100    -    -            150    -    0       150    -    0
Veh in Median Storage, #              -    0    -            -    0    -              -    0    -         -    0    -
Grade, %                              -    0    -            -    0    -              -    0    -         -    0    -
Peak Hour Factor                     53   25   38           49   25   52             25   88   51        75   78   50
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2    2    2            2    2    2              2    2    2         2    2    2
Mvmt Flow                            36    4    8           88    8 183               4 562 192         100 114    12


Major/Minor                      Minor2                  Minor1                  Major1              Major2
Conflicting Flow All                983 888 117             894 888 566             117    0    0       563      0      0
       Stage 1                      317 317       -         571 571       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                      666 571       -         323 317       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Critical Hdwy                      7.12 6.52 6.22          7.12 6.52 6.22           4.12   -    -      4.12      -      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                6.12 5.52      -        6.12 5.52      -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                6.12 5.52      -        6.12 5.52      -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Follow-up Hdwy                    3.518 4.018 3.318       3.518 4.018 3.318       2.218    -    -     2.218      -      -
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                  228 283 935             262 283 524            1471    -    -      1008      -      -
       Stage 1                      694 654       -         506 505       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                      449 505       -         689 654       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Platoon blocked, %                                                                         -    -                -      -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                 133     254   933       237    254   523       1471     -    -      1005      -      -
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                 133     254     -       237    254     -          -     -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 1                     690     587     -       505    504     -          -     -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                     286     504     -       611    587     -          -     -    -         -      -      -


Approach                            EB                      WB                      NB                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s                36                     20.4                      0                    4
HCM LOS                              E                       C


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt               NBL    NBT NBR EBLn1WBLn1WBLn2 SBL        SBT SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                   1471      -    - 163 237 501 1005            -    -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.003      -    - 0.293 0.37 0.381  0.1       -    -
HCM Control Delay (s)                7.5     -    -     36 28.9 16.5    9       -    -
HCM Lane LOS                           A     -    -      E   D     C    A        -   -
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  0     -    -    1.2  1.6   1.8 0.3       -    -




Exeter AM Existing 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                               Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                    Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
6: Golden Harvest & School Access                                                                        3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           3


Movement                        EBL EBT                        WBT WBR      SBL      SBR
Vol, veh/h                         0 160                         59    1       8       84
Conflicting Peds, #/hr             0    0                         0    0       0        0
Sign Control                    Free Free                      Free Free    Stop    Stop
RT Channelized                     - None                         - None       -    None
Storage Length                     -    -                         -    -       0        -
Veh in Median Storage, #           -    0                         0    -       0        -
Grade, %                           -    0                         0    -       0        -
Peak Hour Factor                  49   49                        49   49      49       49
Heavy Vehicles, %                  2    2                         2    2       2        2
Mvmt Flow                          0 327                        120    2      16      171


Major/Minor                    Major1                         Major2       Minor2
Conflicting Flow All              122     0                        -   0      448     121
       Stage 1                      -     -                        -   -      121       -
       Stage 2                      -     -                        -   -      327       -
Critical Hdwy                    4.12     -                        -   -     6.42    6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                 -     -                        -   -     5.42       -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                 -     -                        -   -     5.42       -
Follow-up Hdwy                  2.218     -                        -   -    3.518   3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver              1465      -                        -   -      568     930
       Stage 1                      -     -                        -   -      904       -
       Stage 2                      -     -                        -   -      731       -
Platoon blocked, %                        -                        -   -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver              1465      -                        -   -     568     930
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                 -      -                        -   -     568       -
       Stage 1                     -      -                        -   -     904       -
       Stage 2                     -      -                        -   -     731       -


Approach                          EB                            WB            SB
HCM Control Delay, s               0                             0           10.2
HCM LOS                                                                         B


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt            EBL    EBT WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)                1465      -   -    - 881
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                 -      -   -    - 0.213
HCM Control Delay (s)              0      -   -    - 10.2
HCM Lane LOS                       A      -   -    -      B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)              0      -   -    -    0.8




Exeter AM Existing 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                       Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                            Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
8: Golden Harvest & Pony Exp. Center                                                                         3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           6.6


Movement                           EBL EBT                        WBT WBR      SBL      SBR
Vol, veh/h                          154   14                         4   40      10      56
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                0    0                         0    0       0       0
Sign Control                       Free Free                      Free Free    Stop    Stop
RT Channelized                        - None                         - None       -    None
Storage Length                        -    -                         -    -       0        -
Veh in Median Storage, #              -    0                         0    -       0        -
Grade, %                              -    0                         0    -       0        -
Peak Hour Factor                     64   64                        64   64      64      64
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2    2                         2    2       2       2
Mvmt Flow                           241   22                         6   62      16      88


Major/Minor                      Major1                          Major2       Minor2
Conflicting Flow All                 69      0                        -   0      541       38
       Stage 1                        -      -                        -   -       38        -
       Stage 2                        -      -                        -   -      503        -
Critical Hdwy                      4.12      -                        -   -     6.42     6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                   -      -                        -   -     5.42        -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                   -      -                        -   -     5.42        -
Follow-up Hdwy                    2.218      -                        -   -    3.518   3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                1532       -                        -   -      502    1034
       Stage 1                        -      -                        -   -      984        -
       Stage 2                        -      -                        -   -      607        -
Platoon blocked, %                           -                        -   -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                1532       -                        -   -     422    1034
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                   -       -                        -   -     422       -
       Stage 1                       -       -                        -   -     984       -
       Stage 2                       -       -                        -   -     510       -


Approach                            EB                             WB            SB
HCM Control Delay, s                7.1                             0            9.8
HCM LOS                                                                            A


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt               EBL    EBT WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)                   1532      -   -    - 848
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.157      -   -    - 0.122
HCM Control Delay (s)                7.8     0   -    -    9.8
HCM Lane LOS                           A     A   -    -      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                0.6     -   -    -    0.4




Exeter AM Existing 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                           Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
2: Golden Harvest & Pony Express Pkwy                                                            3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           1.5


Movement                          EBL          EBR         NBL NBT      SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                          12           12          33 182       65   11
Conflicting Peds, #/hr               0            0           0    0       0    0
Sign Control                      Stop         Stop        Free Free    Free Free
RT Channelized                       -         None           - None       - None
Storage Length                       0            -           -    -       -    -
Veh in Median Storage, #             0            -           -    0       0    -
Grade, %                             0            -           -    0       0    -
Peak Hour Factor                    74           74          74   74      74   74
Heavy Vehicles, %                    2            2           2    2       2    2
Mvmt Flow                           16           16          45 246       88   15


Major/Minor                      Minor2                   Major1       Major2
Conflicting Flow All                430           95         103   0        -   0
       Stage 1                       95            -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                      335            -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy                      6.42         6.22        4.12   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                5.42            -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                5.42            -           -   -        -   -
Follow-up Hdwy                    3.518        3.318       2.218   -        -   -
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                  582          962       1489    -        -   -
       Stage 1                      929            -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                      725            -           -   -        -   -
Platoon blocked, %                                                 -        -   -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                 562          962        1489    -        -   -
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                 562            -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 1                     929            -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 2                     700            -           -    -        -   -


Approach                            EB                       NB           SB
HCM Control Delay, s               10.3                      1.1           0
HCM LOS                               B


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt              NBL    NBT EBLn1    SBT SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                  1489      - 710        -    -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                 0.03     - 0.046      -    -
HCM Control Delay (s)               7.5     0 10.3       -    -
HCM Lane LOS                          A     A      B     -    -
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)               0.1     -    0.1     -    -




Exeter AM Existing 2/25/2020 Baseline                                               Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                    Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
1: Golden Harvest & Lone Peak Parkway                                                                             3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           1.3


Movement                           EBL EBT EBR              WBL WBT WBR             NBL NBT NBR         SBL SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                           12    1    3             14    0   32             1 359     3        16 350    21
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                0    0    0              0    0    0             0    0    0         0    0    0
Sign Control                       Stop Stop Stop           Stop Stop Stop          Free Free Free      Free Free Free
RT Channelized                        -    - None              -    - None             -    - None         -    - None
Storage Length                        -    -    -            100    -    -           150    -    0       150    -    0
Veh in Median Storage, #              -    0    -              -    0    -             -    0    -         -    0    -
Grade, %                              -    0    -              -    0    -             -    0    -         -    0    -
Peak Hour Factor                     88   88   88             88   88   88            88   88   88        88   88   88
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2    2    2              2    2    2             2    2    2         2    2    2
Mvmt Flow                            14    1    3             16    0   36             1 408     3        18 398    24


Major/Minor                      Minor2                   Minor1                  Major1              Major2
Conflicting Flow All                862 844 398              846 844 408             398    0    0       408      0      0
       Stage 1                      434 434       -          410 410       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                      428 410       -          436 434       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Critical Hdwy                      7.12 6.52 6.22           7.12 6.52 6.22           4.12   -    -      4.12      -      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                6.12 5.52      -         6.12 5.52      -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                6.12 5.52      -         6.12 5.52      -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Follow-up Hdwy                    3.518 4.018 3.318        3.518 4.018 3.318       2.218    -    -     2.218      -      -
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                  275 300 652              282 300 643            1161    -    -      1151      -      -
       Stage 1                      600 581       -          619 595       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                      605 595       -          599 581       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Platoon blocked, %                                                                          -    -                -      -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                 256     295   652         276   295   643       1161     -    -      1151      -      -
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                 256     295     -         276   295     -          -     -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 1                     599     572     -         618   594     -          -     -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                     570     594     -         585   572     -          -     -    -         -      -      -


Approach                            EB                       WB                      NB                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s               18.1                     13.3                      0                   0.3
HCM LOS                              C                         B


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt               NBL    NBT NBR EBLn1WBLn1WBLn2 SBL         SBT SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                   1161      -    - 292 276 643 1151             -    -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.001      -    - 0.062 0.058 0.057 0.016      -    -
HCM Control Delay (s)                8.1     -    - 18.1 18.8 10.9       8.2     -    -
HCM Lane LOS                           A     -    -     C     C      B     A      -   -
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  0     -    -    0.2   0.2   0.2     0     -    -




Exeter PM Existing 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                                Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                     Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
6: Golden Harvest & School Access                                                                            3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           0.8


Movement                           EBL EBT                        WBT WBR      SBL      SBR
Vol, veh/h                            1   11                        34    0       0       4
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                0    0                         0    0       0       0
Sign Control                       Free Free                      Free Free    Stop    Stop
RT Channelized                        - None                         - None       -    None
Storage Length                        -    -                         -    -       0        -
Veh in Median Storage, #              -    0                         0    -       0        -
Grade, %                              -    0                         0    -       0        -
Peak Hour Factor                     88   88                        88   88      88      88
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2    2                         2    2       2       2
Mvmt Flow                             1   12                        39    0       0       5


Major/Minor                      Major1                          Major2       Minor2
Conflicting Flow All                 39      0                        -   0       54       39
       Stage 1                        -      -                        -   -       39        -
       Stage 2                        -      -                        -   -       15        -
Critical Hdwy                      4.12      -                        -   -     6.42     6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                   -      -                        -   -     5.42        -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                   -      -                        -   -     5.42        -
Follow-up Hdwy                    2.218      -                        -   -    3.518   3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                1571       -                        -   -      954    1033
       Stage 1                        -      -                        -   -      983        -
       Stage 2                        -      -                        -   -    1008         -
Platoon blocked, %                           -                        -   -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                1571       -                        -   -     953    1033
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                   -       -                        -   -     953       -
       Stage 1                       -       -                        -   -     983       -
       Stage 2                       -       -                        -   -    1007       -


Approach                            EB                             WB            SB
HCM Control Delay, s                0.6                             0            8.5
HCM LOS                                                                            A


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt               EBL    EBT WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)                   1571      -   -    - 1033
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.001      -   -    - 0.004
HCM Control Delay (s)                7.3     0   -    -    8.5
HCM Lane LOS                           A     A   -    -      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  0     -   -    -      0




Exeter PM Existing 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                           Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
8: Golden Harvest & Pony Exp. Center                                                                         3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           6.7


Movement                           EBL EBT                        WBT WBR      SBL      SBR
Vol, veh/h                            6    5                         4    0       3      30
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                0    0                         0    0       0       0
Sign Control                       Free Free                      Free Free    Stop    Stop
RT Channelized                        - None                         - None       -    None
Storage Length                        -    -                         -    -       0        -
Veh in Median Storage, #              -    0                         0    -       0        -
Grade, %                              -    0                         0    -       0        -
Peak Hour Factor                     88   88                        88   88      88      88
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2    2                         2    2       2       2
Mvmt Flow                             7    6                         5    0       3      34


Major/Minor                      Major1                          Major2       Minor2
Conflicting Flow All                  5      0                        -   0       24        5
       Stage 1                        -      -                        -   -        5        -
       Stage 2                        -      -                        -   -       19        -
Critical Hdwy                      4.12      -                        -   -     6.42     6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                   -      -                        -   -     5.42        -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                   -      -                        -   -     5.42        -
Follow-up Hdwy                    2.218      -                        -   -    3.518   3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                1616       -                        -   -      992    1078
       Stage 1                        -      -                        -   -    1018         -
       Stage 2                        -      -                        -   -    1004         -
Platoon blocked, %                           -                        -   -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                1616       -                        -   -     988    1078
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                   -       -                        -   -     988       -
       Stage 1                       -       -                        -   -    1018       -
       Stage 2                       -       -                        -   -    1000       -


Approach                            EB                             WB            SB
HCM Control Delay, s                3.9                             0            8.5
HCM LOS                                                                            A


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt               EBL    EBT WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)                   1616      -   -    - 1069
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.004      -   -    - 0.035
HCM Control Delay (s)                7.2     0   -    -    8.5
HCM Lane LOS                           A     A   -    -      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  0     -   -    -    0.1




Exeter PM Existing 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                           Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
2: Golden Harvest & Pony Express Pkwy.                                                            3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           0.7


Movement                           EBL          EBR         NBL NBT      SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                            2            6           3   58      59    1
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                0            0           0    0       0    0
Sign Control                       Stop         Stop        Free Free    Free Free
RT Channelized                        -         None           - None       - None
Storage Length                        0            -           -    -       -    -
Veh in Median Storage, #              0            -           -    0       0    -
Grade, %                              0            -           -    0       0    -
Peak Hour Factor                     92           92          92   92      92   92
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2            2           2    2       2    2
Mvmt Flow                             2            7           3   63      64    1


Major/Minor                      Minor2                    Major1       Major2
Conflicting Flow All                135            65          65   0        -   0
       Stage 1                       65             -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                       70             -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy                      6.42          6.22        4.12   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                5.42             -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                5.42             -           -   -        -   -
Follow-up Hdwy                    3.518         3.318       2.218   -        -   -
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                  859           999       1537    -        -   -
       Stage 1                      958             -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                      953             -           -   -        -   -
Platoon blocked, %                                                  -        -   -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                 857           999        1537    -        -   -
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                 857             -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 1                     958             -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 2                     951             -           -    -        -   -


Approach                            EB                        NB           SB
HCM Control Delay, s                8.8                       0.4           0
HCM LOS                               A


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt               NBL    NBT EBLn1    SBT SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                   1537      - 959        -    -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.002      - 0.009      -    -
HCM Control Delay (s)                7.3     0    8.8     -    -
HCM Lane LOS                           A     A      A     -    -
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  0     -      0     -    -




Exeter PM Existing 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                     Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
1: Lone Peak & Golden Harvest                                                                                     3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           7.1


Movement                           EBL EBT EBR              WBL WBT WBR             NBL NBT NBR         SBL SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                           19    1    3             43    2 102              1 495 118         101   89    6
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                3    0    3              0    0    0             0    0    0         3    0    3
Sign Control                       Stop Stop Stop           Stop Stop Stop          Free Free Free      Free Free Free
RT Channelized                        -    - None              -    - None             -    - None         -    - None
Storage Length                        -    -    -            100    -    -           150    -    0       150    -    0
Veh in Median Storage, #              -    0    -              -    0    -             -    0    -         -    0    -
Grade, %                              -    0    -              -    0    -             -    0    -         -    0    -
Peak Hour Factor                     53   25   38             49   25   52            25   88   51        75   78   50
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2    2    2              2    2    2             2    2    2         2    2    2
Mvmt Flow                            36    4    8             88    8 196              4 562 231         135 114    12


Major/Minor                      Minor2                   Minor1                  Major1              Major2
Conflicting Flow All              1059 957 117               963 957 566             117    0    0       563      0      0
       Stage 1                      386 386       -          571 571       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                      673 571       -          392 386       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Critical Hdwy                      7.12 6.52 6.22           7.12 6.52 6.22           4.12   -    -      4.12      -      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                6.12 5.52      -         6.12 5.52      -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                6.12 5.52      -         6.12 5.52      -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Follow-up Hdwy                    3.518 4.018 3.318        3.518 4.018 3.318       2.218    -    -     2.218      -      -
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                  202 258 935              235 258 524            1471    -    -      1008      -      -
       Stage 1                      637 610       -          506 505       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                      445 505       -          633 610       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Platoon blocked, %                                                                          -    -                -      -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                 109     222   933         206   222   523       1471     -    -      1005      -      -
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                 109     222     -         206   222     -          -     -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 1                     634     527     -         505   504     -          -     -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                     272     504     -         539   527     -          -     -    -         -      -      -


Approach                            EB                       WB                      NB                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s                46                      22.5                      0                   4.7
HCM LOS                              E                        C


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt               NBL    NBT NBR EBLn1WBLn1WBLn2 SBL         SBT SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                   1471      -    - 134 206 497 1005             -    -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.003      -    - 0.356 0.426 0.411 0.134      -    -
HCM Control Delay (s)                7.5     -    -     46 34.9 17.2     9.1     -    -
HCM Lane LOS                           A     -    -      E    D     C      A      -   -
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  0     -    -    1.5    2     2    0.5     -    -




Exeter AM With Site 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                               Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                     Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
6: Golden Harvest & School Access                                                                              3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           3.2


Movement                          EBL EBT EBR           WBL WBT WBR           NBL NBT NBR            SBL SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                           0 166    40          20   39    1           7    0    0            8    0   84
Conflicting Peds, #/hr               0    0    0           0    0    0           0    0    0            0    0    0
Sign Control                      Free Free Free        Free Free Free        Stop Stop Stop         Stop Stop Stop
RT Channelized                       -    - None           -    - None           -    - None            -    - None
Storage Length                       -    -    -           -    -    -           -    -    -            -    -    -
Veh in Median Storage, #             -    0    -           -    0    -           -    0    -            -    0    -
Grade, %                             -    0    -           -    0    -           -    0    -            -    0    -
Peak Hour Factor                    49   49   92          92   49   49          92   92   92           49   92   49
Heavy Vehicles, %                    2    2    2           2    2    2           2    2    2            2    2    2
Mvmt Flow                            0 339    43          22   80    2           8    0    0           16    0 171


Major/Minor                      Major1               Major2                 Minor1                Minor2
Conflicting Flow All                 82    0     0       382   0     0          571 486 361           485 506      81
       Stage 1                        -    -     -         -   -     -          361 361       -       124 124       -
       Stage 2                        -    -     -         -   -     -          210 125       -       361 382       -
Critical Hdwy                      4.12    -     -      4.12   -     -         7.12 6.52 6.22        7.12 6.52 6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                   -    -     -         -   -     -         6.12 5.52      -      6.12 5.52      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                   -    -     -         -   -     -         6.12 5.52      -      6.12 5.52      -
Follow-up Hdwy                    2.218    -     -     2.218   -     -        3.518 4.018 3.318     3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                1515     -     -     1176    -     -          432 481 684           492 469 979
       Stage 1                        -    -     -         -   -     -          657 626       -       880 793       -
       Stage 2                        -    -     -         -   -     -          792 792       -       657 613       -
Platoon blocked, %                         -     -             -     -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                1515     -     -      1176   -     -         351    471   684       484    460    979
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                   -     -     -         -   -     -         351    471     -       484    460      -
       Stage 1                       -     -     -         -   -     -         657    626     -       880    777      -
       Stage 2                       -     -     -         -   -     -         640    776     -       657    613      -


Approach                            EB                   WB                     NB                    SB
HCM Control Delay, s                 0                   1.7                   15.5                  10.1
HCM LOS                                                                          C                      B


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt            NBLn1 EBL     EBT EBR WBL WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)                    351 1515     -    - 1176   -  - 899
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.022    -     -    - 0.018  -  - 0.209
HCM Control Delay (s)              15.5    0     -    -    8.1 0  - 10.1
HCM Lane LOS                          C    A     -    -      A A  -      B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                0.1   0     -    -    0.1 -  -    0.8




Exeter AM With Site 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                            Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                  Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
8: Golden Harvest & Pony Exp. Center                                                                            3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           6.6


Movement                          EBL EBT EBR            WBL WBT WBR           NBL NBT NBR            SBL SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                         154   14    6            0    4   40           0    0    0           10    0   56
Conflicting Peds, #/hr               0    0    0            0    0    0           0    0    0            0    0    0
Sign Control                      Free Free Free         Free Free Free        Stop Stop Stop         Stop Stop Stop
RT Channelized                       -    - None            -    - None           -    - None            -    - None
Storage Length                       -    -    -            -    -    -           -    -    -            -    -    -
Veh in Median Storage, #             -    0    -            -    0    -           -    0    -            -    0    -
Grade, %                             -    0    -            -    0    -           -    0    -            -    0    -
Peak Hour Factor                    64   64   92           92   64   64          92   92   92           64   92   64
Heavy Vehicles, %                    2    2    2            2    2    2           2    2    2            2    2    2
Mvmt Flow                          241   22    7            0    6   62           0    0    0           16    0   88


Major/Minor                      Major1                Major2                 Minor1                Minor2
Conflicting Flow All                 69    0      0        28   0     0          587 575      25       544 548      38
       Stage 1                        -    -      -         -   -     -          506 506       -        38    38     -
       Stage 2                        -    -      -         -   -     -           81    69     -       506 510       -
Critical Hdwy                      4.12    -      -      4.12   -     -         7.12 6.52 6.22        7.12 6.52 6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                   -    -      -         -   -     -         6.12 5.52      -      6.12 5.52      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                   -    -      -         -   -     -         6.12 5.52      -      6.12 5.52      -
Follow-up Hdwy                    2.218    -      -     2.218   -     -        3.518 4.018 3.318     3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                1532     -      -     1585    -     -          421 429 1051          450 444 1034
       Stage 1                        -    -      -         -   -     -          549 540       -       977 863       -
       Stage 2                        -    -      -         -   -     -          927 837       -       549 538       -
Platoon blocked, %                         -      -             -     -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                1532     -      -      1585   -     -         338   360 1051         395    373 1034
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                   -     -      -         -   -     -         338   360    -         395    373    -
       Stage 1                       -     -      -         -   -     -         461   454    -         821    863    -
       Stage 2                       -     -      -         -   -     -         849   837    -         461    452    -


Approach                            EB                    WB                     NB                     SB
HCM Control Delay, s                 7                     0                      0                     10
HCM LOS                                                                           A                      B


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt            NBLn1 EBL      EBT EBR WBL WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)                     - 1532       -    - 1585 -    - 830
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                   - 0.157      -    -    - -    - 0.124
HCM Control Delay (s)                0    7.8     0    -    0 -    -     10
HCM Lane LOS                         A      A     A    -    A -    -      B
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                -    0.6     -    -    0 -    -    0.4




Exeter AM With Site 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                             Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                   Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
2: Golden Harvest & Pony Express Pkwy.                                                           3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           1.5


Movement                          EBL          EBR         NBL NBT      SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                          12           12          33 182       65   11
Conflicting Peds, #/hr               0            0           0    0       0    0
Sign Control                      Stop         Stop        Free Free    Free Free
RT Channelized                       -         None           - None       - None
Storage Length                       0            -           -    -       -    -
Veh in Median Storage, #             0            -           -    0       0    -
Grade, %                             0            -           -    0       0    -
Peak Hour Factor                    74           74          74   74      74   74
Heavy Vehicles, %                    2            2           2    2       2    2
Mvmt Flow                           16           16          45 246       88   15


Major/Minor                      Minor2                   Major1       Major2
Conflicting Flow All                430           95         103   0        -   0
       Stage 1                       95            -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                      335            -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy                      6.42         6.22        4.12   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                5.42            -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                5.42            -           -   -        -   -
Follow-up Hdwy                    3.518        3.318       2.218   -        -   -
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                  582          962       1489    -        -   -
       Stage 1                      929            -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                      725            -           -   -        -   -
Platoon blocked, %                                                 -        -   -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                 562          962        1489    -        -   -
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                 562            -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 1                     929            -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 2                     700            -           -    -        -   -


Approach                            EB                       NB           SB
HCM Control Delay, s               10.3                      1.1           0
HCM LOS                               B


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt              NBL    NBT EBLn1    SBT SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                  1489      - 710        -    -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                 0.03     - 0.046      -    -
HCM Control Delay (s)               7.5     0 10.3       -    -
HCM Lane LOS                          A     A      B     -    -
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)               0.1     -    0.1     -    -




Exeter AM With Site 2/25/2020 Baseline                                              Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                    Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
14: Pony Express Pkwy. & Furniture Access                                                         3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           1.2


Movement                           EBL          EBR         NBL NBT      SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                            7            7          32 208       71    6
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                0            0           0    0       0    0
Sign Control                       Stop         Stop        Free Free    Free Free
RT Channelized                        -         None           - None       - None
Storage Length                        0            -           -    -       -    -
Veh in Median Storage, #              0            -           -    0       0    -
Grade, %                              0            -           -    0       0    -
Peak Hour Factor                     74           74          74   74      74   74
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2            2           2    2       2    2
Mvmt Flow                             9            9          43 281       96    8


Major/Minor                      Minor2                    Major1       Major2
Conflicting Flow All                468           100         104   0        -   0
       Stage 1                      100             -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                      368             -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy                      6.42          6.22        4.12   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                5.42             -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                5.42             -           -   -        -   -
Follow-up Hdwy                    3.518         3.318       2.218   -        -   -
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                  553           956       1488    -        -   -
       Stage 1                      924             -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                      700             -           -   -        -   -
Platoon blocked, %                                                  -        -   -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                 534           956        1488    -        -   -
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                 534             -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 1                     924             -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 2                     676             -           -    -        -   -


Approach                            EB                        NB           SB
HCM Control Delay, s               10.4                        1            0
HCM LOS                               B


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt               NBL    NBT EBLn1    SBT SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                   1488      - 685        -    -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.029      - 0.028      -    -
HCM Control Delay (s)                7.5     0 10.4       -    -
HCM Lane LOS                           A     A      B     -    -
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                0.1     -    0.1     -    -




Exeter AM With Site 2/25/2020 Baseline                                               Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                     Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
1: Lone Peak & Golden Harvest                                                                                     3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           2.3


Movement                           EBL EBT EBR              WBL WBT WBR             NBL NBT NBR         SBL SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                           12    1    3             24    0   84             1 359    16        29 350    21
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                0    0    0              0    0    0             0    0    0         0    0    0
Sign Control                       Stop Stop Stop           Stop Stop Stop          Free Free Free      Free Free Free
RT Channelized                        -    - None              -    - None             -    - None         -    - None
Storage Length                        -    -    -            100    -    -           150    -    0       150    -    0
Veh in Median Storage, #              -    0    -              -    0    -             -    0    -         -    0    -
Grade, %                              -    0    -              -    0    -             -    0    -         -    0    -
Peak Hour Factor                     88   88   88             88   88   88            88   88   88        88   88   88
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2    2    2              2    2    2             2    2    2         2    2    2
Mvmt Flow                            14    1    3             27    0   95             1 408    18        33 398    24


Major/Minor                      Minor2                   Minor1                  Major1              Major2
Conflicting Flow All                922 874 398              876 874 408             398    0    0       408      0      0
       Stage 1                      464 464       -          410 410       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                      458 410       -          466 464       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Critical Hdwy                      7.12 6.52 6.22           7.12 6.52 6.22           4.12   -    -      4.12      -      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                6.12 5.52      -         6.12 5.52      -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                6.12 5.52      -         6.12 5.52      -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Follow-up Hdwy                    3.518 4.018 3.318        3.518 4.018 3.318       2.218    -    -     2.218      -      -
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                  251 288 652              269 288 643            1161    -    -      1151      -      -
       Stage 1                      578 564       -          619 595       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                      583 595       -          577 564       -            -   -    -         -      -      -
Platoon blocked, %                                                                          -    -                -      -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                 209     280   652         261   280   643       1161     -    -      1151      -      -
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                 209     280     -         261   280     -          -     -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 1                     578     548     -         618   594     -          -     -    -         -      -      -
       Stage 2                     496     594     -         556   548     -          -     -    -         -      -      -


Approach                            EB                       WB                      NB                   SB
HCM Control Delay, s               20.9                     13.6                      0                   0.6
HCM LOS                              C                         B


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt               NBL    NBT NBR EBLn1WBLn1WBLn2 SBL         SBT SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                   1161      -    - 244 261 643 1151             -    -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.001      -    - 0.075 0.104 0.148 0.029      -    -
HCM Control Delay (s)                8.1     -    - 20.9 20.4 11.6       8.2     -    -
HCM Lane LOS                           A     -    -     C     C      B     A      -   -
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  0     -    -    0.2   0.3   0.5   0.1     -    -




Exeter PM With Site 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                               Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                     Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
6: Golden Harvest & School Access                                                                                3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           3.7


Movement                           EBL EBT EBR            WBL WBT WBR           NBL NBT NBR            SBL SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                            1   30   10            0   45    0          51    0    0            0    0    4
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                0    0    0            0    0    0           0    0    0            0    0    0
Sign Control                       Free Free Free         Free Free Free        Stop Stop Stop         Stop Stop Stop
RT Channelized                        -    - None            -    - None           -    - None            -    - None
Storage Length                        -    -    -            -    -    -           -    -    -            -    -    -
Veh in Median Storage, #              -    0    -            -    0    -           -    0    -            -    0    -
Grade, %                              -    0    -            -    0    -           -    0    -            -    0    -
Peak Hour Factor                     88   88   88           88   88   88          88   88   88           88   88   88
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2    2    2            2    2    2           2    2    2            2    2    2
Mvmt Flow                             1   34   11            0   51    0          58    0    0            0    0    5


Major/Minor                      Major1                 Major2                 Minor1                Minor2
Conflicting Flow All                 51     0      0        45   0     0           95    93    40        93    99    51
       Stage 1                        -     -      -         -   -     -           42    42     -        51    51     -
       Stage 2                        -     -      -         -   -     -           53    51     -        42    48     -
Critical Hdwy                      4.12     -      -      4.12   -     -         7.12 6.52 6.22        7.12 6.52 6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                   -     -      -         -   -     -         6.12 5.52      -      6.12 5.52      -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                   -     -      -         -   -     -         6.12 5.52      -      6.12 5.52      -
Follow-up Hdwy                    2.218     -      -     2.218   -     -        3.518 4.018 3.318     3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                1555      -      -     1563    -     -          888 797 1031          891 791 1017
       Stage 1                        -     -      -         -   -     -          972 860       -       962 852       -
       Stage 2                        -     -      -         -   -     -          960 852       -       972 855       -
Platoon blocked, %                          -      -             -     -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                1555      -      -      1563   -     -         883    796 1031        890    790 1017
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                   -      -      -         -   -     -         883    796    -        890    790    -
       Stage 1                       -      -      -         -   -     -         971    859    -        961    852    -
       Stage 2                       -      -      -         -   -     -         956    852    -        971    854    -


Approach                            EB                     WB                     NB                     SB
HCM Control Delay, s                0.2                     0                     9.4                    8.6
HCM LOS                                                                             A                      A


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt            NBLn1 EBL       EBT EBR WBL WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)                    883 1555       -    - 1563 -    - 1017
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.066 0.001      -    -    - -    - 0.004
HCM Control Delay (s)                9.4   7.3     0    -    0 -    -    8.6
HCM Lane LOS                           A     A     A    -    A -    -      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                0.2     0     -    -    0 -    -      0




Exeter PM With Site 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                              Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                    Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
8: Golden Harvest & Pony Exp. Center                                                                             3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           5.2


Movement                           EBL EBT EBR            WBL WBT WBR           NBL NBT NBR            SBL SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                            6    8   16            0    4    0          11    0    0            0    0   30
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                0    0    0            0    0    0           0    0    0            0    0    0
Sign Control                       Free Free Free         Free Free Free        Stop Stop Stop         Stop Stop Stop
RT Channelized                        -    - None            -    - None           -    - None            -    - None
Storage Length                        -    -    -            -    -    -           -    -    -            -    -    -
Veh in Median Storage, #              -    0    -            -    0    -           -    0    -            -    0    -
Grade, %                              -    0    -            -    0    -           -    0    -            -    0    -
Peak Hour Factor                     88   88   88           88   88   88          88   88   88           88   88   88
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2    2    2            2    2    2           2    2    2            2    2    2
Mvmt Flow                             7    9   18            0    5    0          12    0    0            0    0   34


Major/Minor                      Major1                 Major2                 Minor1                Minor2
Conflicting Flow All                  5     0      0        27   0     0           54    37    18         37   46     5
       Stage 1                        -     -      -         -   -     -           32    32     -          5    5     -
       Stage 2                        -     -      -         -   -     -           22     5     -         32   41     -
Critical Hdwy                      4.12     -      -      4.12   -     -         7.12 6.52 6.22         7.12 6.52 6.22
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                   -     -      -         -   -     -         6.12 5.52      -       6.12 5.52     -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                   -     -      -         -   -     -         6.12 5.52      -       6.12 5.52     -
Follow-up Hdwy                    2.218     -      -     2.218   -     -        3.518 4.018 3.318     3.518 4.018 3.318
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                1616      -      -     1587    -     -          944 855 1061          968 846 1078
       Stage 1                        -     -      -         -   -     -          984 868       -      1017 892       -
       Stage 2                        -     -      -         -   -     -          996 892       -        984 861      -
Platoon blocked, %                          -      -             -     -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                1616      -      -      1587   -     -         911   852 1061         965    843 1078
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                   -      -      -         -   -     -         911   852    -         965    843    -
       Stage 1                       -      -      -         -   -     -         980   865    -        1013    892    -
       Stage 2                       -      -      -         -   -     -         965   892    -         980    858    -


Approach                            EB                     WB                     NB                     SB
HCM Control Delay, s                1.4                     0                      9                     8.4
HCM LOS                                                                            A                       A


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt            NBLn1 EBL       EBT EBR WBL WBT WBR SBLn1
Capacity (veh/h)                    911 1616       -    - 1587 -    - 1078
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.014 0.004      -    -    - -    - 0.032
HCM Control Delay (s)                 9    7.2     0    -    0 -    -    8.4
HCM Lane LOS                          A      A     A    -    A -    -      A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0      0     -    -    0 -    -    0.1




Exeter PM With Site 2/25/2020 Baseline                                                              Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                                    Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
2: Golden Harvest & Pony Express Pkwy.                                                            3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           0.6


Movement                           EBL          EBR         NBL NBT      SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                            2            6           3   69      67    1
Conflicting Peds, #/hr                0            0           0    0       0    0
Sign Control                       Stop         Stop        Free Free    Free Free
RT Channelized                        -         None           - None       - None
Storage Length                        0            -           -    -       -    -
Veh in Median Storage, #              0            -           -    0       0    -
Grade, %                              0            -           -    0       0    -
Peak Hour Factor                     92           92          92   92      92   92
Heavy Vehicles, %                     2            2           2    2       2    2
Mvmt Flow                             2            7           3   75      73    1


Major/Minor                      Minor2                    Major1       Major2
Conflicting Flow All                155            73          74   0        -   0
       Stage 1                       73             -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                       82             -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy                      6.42          6.22        4.12   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 1                5.42             -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2                5.42             -           -   -        -   -
Follow-up Hdwy                    3.518         3.318       2.218   -        -   -
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                  836           989       1526    -        -   -
       Stage 1                      950             -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                      941             -           -   -        -   -
Platoon blocked, %                                                  -        -   -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver                 834           989        1526    -        -   -
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver                 834             -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 1                     950             -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 2                     939             -           -    -        -   -


Approach                            EB                        NB           SB
HCM Control Delay, s                8.8                       0.3           0
HCM LOS                               A


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt               NBL    NBT EBLn1    SBT SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                   1526      - 945        -    -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                0.002      - 0.009      -    -
HCM Control Delay (s)                7.4     0    8.8     -    -
HCM Lane LOS                           A     A      A     -    -
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  0     -      0     -    -




Exeter PM With Site 2/25/2020 Baseline                                               Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                     Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC
14: Pony Express Pkwy. & Furniture Access                                                       3/5/2020



Intersection
Int Delay, s/veh           2


Movement                         EBL          EBR         NBL NBT      SBT SBR
Vol, veh/h                         11           21           8   61      65    8
Conflicting Peds, #/hr              0            0           0    0       0    0
Sign Control                     Stop         Stop        Free Free    Free Free
RT Channelized                      -         None           - None       - None
Storage Length                      0            -           -    -       -    -
Veh in Median Storage, #            0            -           -    0       0    -
Grade, %                            0            -           -    0       0    -
Peak Hour Factor                   92           92          92   92      92   92
Heavy Vehicles, %                   2            2           2    2       2    2
Mvmt Flow                          12           23           9   66      71    9


Major/Minor                    Minor2                    Major1       Major2
Conflicting Flow All              159            75          79   0        -   0
       Stage 1                     75             -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                     84             -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy                    6.42          6.22        4.12   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 1              5.42             -           -   -        -   -
Critical Hdwy Stg 2              5.42             -           -   -        -   -
Follow-up Hdwy                  3.518         3.318       2.218   -        -   -
Pot Cap-1 Maneuver                832           986       1519    -        -   -
       Stage 1                    948             -           -   -        -   -
       Stage 2                    939             -           -   -        -   -
Platoon blocked, %                                                -        -   -
Mov Cap-1 Maneuver               827           986        1519    -        -   -
Mov Cap-2 Maneuver               827             -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 1                   948             -           -    -        -   -
       Stage 2                   933             -           -    -        -   -


Approach                          EB                        NB           SB
HCM Control Delay, s               9                        0.9           0
HCM LOS                            A


Minor Lane/Major Mvmt             NBL    NBT EBLn1    SBT SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                 1519      - 925        -    -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio              0.006      - 0.038      -    -
HCM Control Delay (s)              7.4     0      9     -    -
HCM Lane LOS                         A     A      A     -    -
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                0     -    0.1     -    -




Exeter PM With Site 2/25/2020 Baseline                                             Synchro 8 Light Report
                                                                                                   Page 1
             EXHIBIT L
APPLICANT DEVIATION REQUEST LETTER
Tuesday, June 8, 2021

Attn:   Todd Draper, AICP
        Draper City Planning Division
        1020 Pioneer Road
        Draper, UT 84020

RE:     SPR-0014-2021 - Summit Commerce Center – Deviation Requests


Todd,

Thank you for reviewing our proposed site development plans for the Summit Commerce Center
development located at the intersection of Golden Harvest Road and Pony Express Road. We are
requesting deviations to the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) for certain aspects of this project.
Further explanation and reasoning for these requests has been provided within this letter.

Deviations requested and explanations:

DCMC Section 9-22-040(C)(1) reads “Horizontal or vertical facade variations shall occur at least every
thirty feet (30') or along a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the horizontal length of buildings with
facades one hundred feet (100') or greater.”

        The architectural elevations and floor layout included as part of the site plan re-submittal do not
        meet strict compliance of this code; however, we believe that the architectural design of the
        building meets the general intent of the DCMC to disallow “completely flat facades and monotone
        color schemes.” The building façade includes recessed windows, parapet/panel height variations,
        and a variety of vertical and horizontal reveals in the panels to provide depth, variation, and visual
        appeal. Entryways include specialty architectural fin and textured panels.

DCMC Section 9-22-040(C)(2) reads “Buildings with facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in total
length shall have at least one significant facade variation from the primary wall plane whose depth is at
least five feet (5') and whose width is at least twenty feet (20'). There shall be no uninterrupted facades
one hundred feet (100') or greater in length.”

        The architectural elevations and floor layout included as part of the site plan re-submittal do not
        meet strict compliance of this code. Dock wall conditions span most of the length of the east and
        west sides of the building, and so require a uniform wall in which to back trailers up to the
        building. We believe, however, that the architectural design of the building meets the general
        intent of the DCMC to disallow long, uninterrupted facades along buildings. Along these dock
        walls and end walls, recessed windows, and a variety of vertical and horizontal reveals in the
        panels are included to provide depth, variation, and visual appeal.

DCMC Section 9-22-040(D)(2) reads “Provide roofline and parapet variations where there are long,
continuous, and undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50') or greater.”

        The architectural elevations included as part of the site plan re-submittal do not meet strict
        compliance of this code. Due to the nature of the 54’ bay spacing, roofline variations occur every
        54’ along the dock walls, rather than every 50’ per code. Along the end walls of the building,
                                       ARCO Design/Build Southwest, Inc.
                                 5424 Katy Freeway, Suite 200, Houston, TX 77007
                                    Call: 281.310.8900 | Fax: 281.310.8901
                                                www.arcodb.com
        roofline variations occur in some cases within 50’, and in some cases in excess of 50’ where the
        parapet height follows the roof slope necessary for proper drainage. We believe, however, that
        the variance in parapet height around the building meets the general intent of the DCMC to
        disallow long, continuous, and undisturbed rooflines.

DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(5) reads, “Tilt-Up Concrete: Exposed tilt-up concrete may be used as a
primary material on buildings located in all manufacturing zones and in the CBP zoning classification.
Some variation in materials along the base and near the entrances of concrete tilt-ups is required.”

        The architectural elevations included as part of the site plan re-submittal do not meet strict
        compliance of this code. The site is in an M-1 zone, and the primary exterior material is tilt-up
        concrete. Variation in materials at the base has been provided at the entryways via a glass
        storefront system, and a variation in color of the tilt walls near the base, accentuated by reveals in
        the tilt panels, has been provided along all other walls. We have refrained from varying the
        materials along the dock walls as these areas are prone to high impact from truck traffic.

Deviation Criteria:

Per the deviation requirements within DCMC Section 9-22-030, the following deviation criteria have been
included which are above and beyond the original design standards and are as follows:

    1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is
       required in the development code and site plan review.

                 The south side of the building is not a main entrance; however, two amenities areas each
                 with two picnic tables/benches have been provided at the north and south sides of the
                 building for pedestrian/employee use. The amenities in this area are in excess of what is
                 required.

    2. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is
       required in the development code and site plan review.

                 The south side of the building is not a main entrance; however, this project includes bike
                 racks on both the north and south sides of the building. Bike rack amenities at this
                 location are in excess of what is required.

    3. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or
       ordinance.

                 Explanations have been provided above for each variance requested. It has been our
                 understanding that DCMC 9-22 provides design criteria to ensure new buildings and sites
                 within draper city are not monotonous in color, shape, design, or feel, are appealing to
                 pedestrians, bikers, and users of public transit, and contribute to the overall quality of life
                 of Draper City Residents. Careful consideration of design has been provided to adhere to
                 these objectives.

    4. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than the
       minimum required amount.

                 The amount of primary materials used for façade is a minimum of 86% per elevation,
                 which is over 10% greater than the 75% required in building design for each elevation.
    5. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space area exceeds
       the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).

                The amount of private landscaping included in this site plan submittal totals 555,309 SF
                (47%), which is 27% more than the required amount of 234,674 SF (20%).

We appreciate your attention in this matter and prompt review. We look forward to building in Draper City.
Please feel free to contact me with any questions or comments.

Sincerely,

Mark McKee,
Project Manager

ARCO Design/Build Southwest, Inc.
5424 Katy Freeway, Suite 200
Houston, TX 77007
(385) 266-0294
mmckee@arcodb.com
