MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER
7, 2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT: Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery,
Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:       David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott
Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource Director; John Eining, Police
Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director;
Angela Fixmer, Deputy City Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications Director;
Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie, Finance Director; Kellie Challburg, Chief of Staff;
Jake Sorenson, IT; Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, Todd Draper, planner
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0   Presentation: Update on the Point – Alan Matheson

1.1   Alan Matheson said that he appreciated Draper City’s support on the project.
      He noted that Mayor Walker served on The Point’s board, David Dobbins, City
      Manager, served on the project’s advisory committee and that Councilmember
      T. Lowery had been part of the working group. He felt as though they received
      good input from Draper.

      He said that the last few weeks had been big. On August 10, 2021, the board
      approved a framework master plan for the site. Then, on August 12th the
      framework master plan was released to Draper via an open house. Over the
      next two weeks, they had 16 media interviews and that many stories, all of
      which were positive. This was also true of the feedback from stakeholders
      such as legislative leadership and the governor.

      The framework plan, although not completely final, reflected several 21st-
      century concepts around livability, sustainability, and transportation that had
      not been seen in Utah and had been seen in few places around the world.
      While they felt that the plan gave them a good direction, they also felt that it
      needed to be flexible to accommodate changes in needs, markets, and
      technologies.


      Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – September 7, 2021
He then explained where the Point was going from here. With the board’s
approval, they were going to undertake several studies. The studies will
investigate issues including the range of options to address sustainability at
the site to use less water and improve air quality, smart cities and their
programs that might make sense at the Point, a micro-transportation study to
look in greater detail at traffic volumes and impacts, the decirculator system,
creating design guidelines to guide developers in the standards that are
important for a site, and further cost analysis. He said that all of these findings
were details that their development partners would need to know to respond
to an RFQ or RFP. He said that it was expected that they would open requests
for qualifications (RFQ) and requests for proposals (RFP) later in the year.
However, they wanted to make sure that several questions were answered in
advance. They would have further detail on the land disposition strategy such
as who will own the land and when. He said that they wanted to find
development partners who were experienced, capable, and who cared about
the site as much as they did. They were looking for partners who were not just
in it to build something and be gone but recognized that this was a long-term
opportunity for the state and citizens. The development needed to reflect
benefits to the residents.

It was anticipated that inmates would be moved from the correctional facility
in the summer of 2022. That would open the door to start demolition on the
site. He said that they were working with the Division of Facilities Construction
and Management on getting someone on board to do the demolition. He
expected that they would then see the development of the backbone
infrastructure in 2023 with some vertical development in the latter part of
2024 or 2025 depending on several factors.

Although there were challenges, this was exciting. Mr. Matheson said that as
he talked with people around the country he consistently heard that this was
an opportunity unlike anything seen not just in Utah, but in most of the
country. It was an opportunity to start from the ground up and do it right; to
have public goals and not just private goals. It was expected that there would
be opportunities for returns on investment, but part of that return was quality
of life for the people of the state.




                                                                     Page 2 of 36
      He said that now he just wanted to hear from the Council. He wanted to know
      what they were hearing from constituents, and what questions did the Council
      or residents have.

1.2   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she thought that Draper residents were
      excited about the progress with the Point. With that excitement, however,
      there was some level of concern regarding the quality of life. Draper wants to
      maintain its quality of life. Along these lines, most of the questions she got
      from residents were: What is being done about traffic? What will happen with
      taxes? Will the Point be using Draper City Police and Fire?

      Mr. Matheson said that they recognized that transportation was perhaps the
      most important issue with the development. It was the issue he heard about
      most. They were trying to do some things to address traffic. First, they were
      trying to reduce offsite traffic generation as much as possible. This meant that
      they were trying to create a place where people could live, work, and play
      without leaving the site. They were developing what they referred to as a one-
      car community. This meant that residents would not need more than one car
      at the site. The car would only be needed for weekend trips or if a member of
      the family needed to commute to work offsite. Anyone that lived in the
      community should be able to get around easily. He said that the system that
      was reflected in the framework plan put everyone within a five-minute walk of
      a circulator or a transit stop. They were trying to put different uses nearby. In
      addition, planners were working closely with the Utah Transit Authority (UTA)
      on the transit system that will go through the site and were exploring ways
      that they could accelerate that so that transit helps drive development as
      opposed to matching up with it. They were also working with the Utah
      Department of Transportation (UDOT) on connectors and access into the site.
      UDOT was looking at a series of one-way frontage roads along I-15 to provide
      easier access and right-in and right-out turns so that there were not as many
      transportation conflicts.

      He agreed that there would be a traffic impact and said that there was going
      to be more traffic regardless if anything happens at the Point or not. What
      they could do was approach it thoughtfully and utilize the best techniques and
      technologies that were available. Beyond that, they were working with UDOT
      on exploring air taxis. These were manned air vehicles that would probably
      be showing up in the next 5-10 years.



                                                                          Page 3 of 36
      In response to the impact on taxes, he said they would have to see. They
      would not be using local taxes to build the site. He said that they anticipate
      that the site will generate revenues for Draper City and by so doing, provide
      revenues for services and amenities for the community.

      *Councilmember Roberts joined the meeting at 5:42 PM.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the site would generate revenue for Draper
      or the State. Alan Matheson said both. They were working on the details of
      how to structure the agreement. They needed to ensure that Draper received
      money and compensate Draper for providing services. That was another
      question that they had not answered yet. He said that at this point, they
      anticipated from conversations that Draper would provide municipal services–
      –fire, police, public works, etc.––and needed to be compensated for that.

1.3   Councilmember F. Lowry said that in response to the transportation question,
      he felt that one element that was necessary for transportation to be successful
      was federal funding. He asked what the availability of federal funds looked
      like currently.

      Mr. Matheson said that the stars were kind of aligning right now. He said that
      the State had more one-time money than it ever had. He said that he
      suspected the Council was tracking the infrastructure bills at the federal level.
      Beyond that, they anticipated that there would-be investors who would want
      to put some money into transportation as well as other issues at the site.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that he had heard different discussions
      regarding getting one big blockbuster tenant versus getting several large
      tenants. He asked if Mr. Matheson could speak to that issue. Mr. Matheson
      said that it would be a mix. He said that they had not actively started recruiting
      yet, but that there was already a lot of interest. Some of the calls he had
      received were regarding corporate headquarters for some multi-billion-dollar
      companies, an exciting proposal for a biotech campus that would include
      everything from a clinical hospital corporate headquarters to a fund that
      would spur new ideas and research into commercialization, to some major
      labs that would be inducers for biotech in the area. He said that he wasn’t
      concerned about interest at this point; it was there. He said that the question
      would be figuring out together with Draper what the best uses were and what
      made sense of the area. He said that he thought that it was quite likely that it

                                                                          Page 4 of 36
      would have a range of various use types. The Utah System of Higher Education
      was in the process of hiring a project manager to develop an innovation
      campus or district at the Point. That would look at several topics ranging from
      air quality and climate to energy innovation to biotech and more. He said that
      it would be a place of creativity with talented people working on the challenges
      we are facing in society to come up with solutions.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that one thing that he was happy about, that he
      felt was a hidden attribute, was the Jordan River. He said that he was glad to
      see how they had accepted input from the Jordan River Commission because
      he felt that it could enhance the site and use this resource that had been
      hidden along the area. He felt that the river could be improved and be made
      even more special.

      Mr. Matheson said that he appreciated Councilmember Lowry’s point because
      it was true. The river was close by and anyone who used the trail came to love
      it. He said that to be able to tie the Jordan Parkway Trail to the site to the
      Draper trails would be remarkable. He said that it would connect hundreds of
      miles of trails. He said that open space was a big part of the site design. It was
      a big part because the public wants it. After all, it was part of the quality of life
      already discussed and was a part of recruiting talent. People want to be in a
      place where they can be around beauty and recreation. He said that there was
      a movement in planning around the country to have parks within a ten-minute
      walk of every resident. At the site, there would be an active open space within
      a two-minute walk of every resident and employee. People would be able to
      get around the site on trails and greenways without ever getting on a road.

1.4   Councilmember Roberts returned to the revenue question. He asked if it was
      anticipated that the project would be revenue neutral to Draper in the sense
      that revenues will just offset costs, or did he anticipate that Draper would
      receive additional revenues. Mr. Matheson said that he expected that there
      would be additional revenues to Draper. He said that they had not worked
      out all the numbers, but that there would be significant sales tax generated
      that would go to Draper. He said the City would certainly benefit.

      Councilmember Green said that they needed to get themselves a ballpark. He
      would go get a team. Mr. Matheson said that they had already talked about
      opportunities for sports and recreation. He said places had been identified on
      the site that could accommodate that.

                                                                             Page 5 of 36
      Councilmember F. Lowry asked what the Draper City Council could do to help
      support the Point as it went through the stages. Mr. Matheson said that he
      appreciated the interest and support they had already received. He said that
      Draper’s staff had been great. He said that as they got into the nitty-gritty, they
      would need to both get and provide information to Draper on municipal
      services and security for the site. He said that they were already working with
      Mr. Dobbins, the Sewer District, water providers, Rocky Mountain Power, and
      others to make sure that they got the necessary infrastructure to the site. That
      collaboration was tremendously supportive and helpful. He said that they
      wanted it to be a real partnership.

      Mayor Walker fielded a question from a resident attending the meeting
      regarding if sewer and water would integrate into the system without major
      changes and expansion.

      Mr. Matheson said it was a good question and was something that the Point
      was talking with the various districts about. He said that the anticipation at
      this point was that it would fit in with the current system. Some upgrades
      would be required to the piping, but it was thought that the system could deal
      with the growth.

2.0   Discussion: Short term rentals – David Dobbins

      David Dobbins, City Manager, said that in the past the City and Council did not
      address short-term rentals such as Airbnb. There had not been too many
      complaints from residents, but these types of rentals had started to increase
      over the last 6-12 months. He said that Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
      did not currently have a provision that regulated them. He said that short-
      term rentals fall into a similar category as accessory dwelling units (ADUs) that
      have been under discussion. He asked the Council if they wanted staff to start
      looking into what it would take to regulate short-term rentals. In the past, the
      legislature had a hands-off approach following the argument that this was
      private property and that if someone wanted to rent their property they
      should be able to do it. Although in the past the City had not done anything,
      he felt as though they were going to need to start telling residents either that
      the City was or was not enforcing short-term rentals.




                                                                           Page 6 of 36
2.1   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he was curious to know what issues had
      been reported to staff and examples of complaints from residents. Mr.
      Dobbins said that the primary complaints were related to noise, traffic, and
      parking.

      Mayor Troy K. Walker said that there had also been some police response to a
      few of the rentals, including in nicer areas of town. He said that there was a
      problem with folks in short-term rentals holding large parties.

2.2   Councilmember Roberts asked if the City would try to apply a similar
      regulatory framework as was developed with the ADUs. Mr. Dobbins said that
      was right.

      Councilmember Roberts said that he knew that the legislature was generally
      in favor of allowing short-term rentals. He wanted to know if there was any
      impending legislation that might speak to the issue. Mr. Dobbins said that his
      sense of the legislature's preference was for cities to acknowledge that this
      was private property and therefore to not regulate short-term rentals. He said
      that there are property owners who live in their homes who have parties on
      the weekend and have City police respond to those homes, so it isn’t any
      different. He felt that the legislature felt that this was not a renter issue.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if anyone on staff had looked at analyzing the
      costs to enforce. Mr. Dobbins said no. Because it was not a problem in the
      past, this was the first time that staff was addressing the issue. He said that
      he didn’t want staff to spend a lot of time on the issue if it was not a priority of
      the Council.

      Councilmember Roberts said that he would like to look at the issue. He said
      that he considered short-term rentals a problem. However, he wanted to
      analyze the cost-benefit of enforcement; it would cost real dollars to enforce.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked how to differentiate between a short-term
      rental and an ADU. Councilmember T. Lowery said that she had a similar
      question about how ADUs and short-term rentals would interact with each
      other. She said that if the City placed more restrictions on ADUs, why couldn’t
      a resident just argue that it was a short-term rental. Mr. Dobbins said there
      was a lot of possibility for discussion about what type of dwelling it was.



                                                                            Page 7 of 36
Councilmember T. Lowery said that ADUs had to be owner-occupied, but
currently the City said that short-term rentals did not. Jen Jastremsky said that
on ADUs, it was not just that they had to be owner-occupied, but that there
had to be at least a 30-day lease. She said that these two variables could serve
as the distinction between a short-term rental and an ADU.

Mr. Dobbins said that concerning enforcement, the City would not have the
capacity to tell someone who was renting their ADU for a week, two weeks
versus a couple of days.

Councilmember Green said that to him it went like this: the code enforcement
goes out and knocks on the door. The person says, “I take the Fifth
Amendment,” and shuts the door. The City could only cite someone if they
were honest about what they were doing. He said that they could send a code
enforcement officer out, however, he was not a fan of having police do
surveillance and going out to count cars and see who was coming and going.
He said he would not support that. He did not think that Draper Police needed
anything else to do. He said that he didn’t like the idea of enforcement. He
didn’t like the idea of sending government agents to people’s homes.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that the challenge was that if the City did not
have a rule, there was nothing to protect the City against. Councilmember
Vawdrey said that she agreed with Councilmember F. Lowry. She recognized
that enforcement was a problem, but said that if they didn’t do anything then
when there was a huge problem they had no way to solve it.

Mr. Dobbins said that it was his experience that once they put some regulation
in, the expectation from some residents was that the City should actively
pursue regulating. He said that staff could come back with some information
about what other cities have done and what it would take to enforce if the
Council wanted them to go down that route as a starting point.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that it seemed logical to him that the City applies
the same standards to short-term rentals as were being applied to ADUs,
excluding the 30-day lease and owner occupancy. He felt all the other
parameters should apply.




                                                                    Page 8 of 36
      Mr. Dobbins said all he wanted was a sense as to if the Council wanted staff to
      look into the issue and report back to the Council on different options and the
      resources it would take to implement those possibilities.

      Councilmember Vawdrey said that she felt the Council needed a better
      understanding of what the City could do.

3.0   Council/Manager Reports

3.1   Councilmember Green said that while out conducting personal business going
      door-to-door over the last couple of weeks, he encountered some folks who
      had complaints about speeding on 13200 South. He hoped that they could get
      some resources out there to slow people down such as a big flashing sign.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if there was a particular spot. Councilmember
      Green said 1053 East.

3.2   Councilmember T. Lowery said she had a request by a resident about the
      broken guardrail near Wheadon Farm Park. She asked if there was a timeline
      for that repair. Scott Cooley, City Engineer, said that he didn’t have a specific
      timeframe, but it was under contract to get it done.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said she also received a request for updated signs
      in the wetlands. A long time ago there were small information signs around
      the ponds. The signs had fallen into disrepair. Residents had requested an
      updated educational series of those placards.

      Mr. Dobbins asked if it was just a replacement for what was there previously.
      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she thought that they were pretty much
      destroyed.

3.3   Councilmember F. Lowry had a long-term item for the Council to think about.
      He said that the Tree Commission meeting was held in the morning and one
      of the items discussed was that Jordan Valley Water was most likely going to
      start placing some water restrictions in 2022 and going forward. Because of
      this, it might be a good idea for the City to be proactive in helping residents
      become more water-wise. He said one of the things that the Tree Commission
      wanted to know was if the City would entertain the idea of adopting a new
      code to no longer allow grass in park strips on future construction sites for

                                                                          Page 9 of 36
      commercial or residential development. He said that they could follow similar
      guidelines as the Flip The Strip Program where 50% are plants so it was not
      just a gravel drive strip.

      Mayor Troy K. Walker said that there was a lot of green grass in Draper. He
      thought that they would get to the point soon where there wouldn’t be any
      except for a few parks. He said that he was supportive of that code change.
      He said that he spent his entire Labor Day weekend digging out his own park
      strip. He felt that they should get behind that sooner than later because the
      restrictions were coming and would be more draconian than residents
      probably expect.

      Councilmember Vawdrey said that she did not know that 50% of the park strips
      were required to be plants and asked if that was water-wise.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that the plants were on a drip system so did not
      use as much water as they would if it were grass. In addition, the types of
      plants used would not require the same amount of water that grass would.
      He said that it was the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy who was giving those
      guidelines.

      He also noted that he was pleased with the Tree Commission and the
      engagement of its new members. He said that they had added a lot of new
      material to their website.

3.4   Councilmember Roberts said that the new elevation signs looked great.

3.5   Councilmember Green asked if there was any way that they could put some
      decoration on the retaining wall on Bangerter Parkway. Mr. Dobbins said that
      he could reach out to the property owner.

3.5   Clint Smith, Fire Chief, provided an update on the Draper Fire Crew that was
      deployed to California. This was the City’s second crew there. They had back-
      to-back deployments. The crew was about 10 days into their deployment and
      were scheduled to work their last shift the following Thursday at 07:00 which
      would bring them off the mountain on Friday morning. He said they had been
      very busy working with a couple of local hotshot crews and doing a lot of night
      burning operations when the weather conditions were more favorable to help
      secure more of the line on the fire. He said they had received a ton of

                                                                       Page 10 of 36
      experience. Although they were working very hard and were very tired,
      everyone was healthy and in good spirits. He said that the City got a request
      just this afternoon to see if the City was interested and could facilitate another
      crew swap for another two weeks. The department will begin looking into that.
      If that was possible, the crew would be deployed on Thursday to move in on
      Friday when the existing crew came off the line. He said the threat was still
      very active in California. The Dixie Fire, where Draper’s crews had been
      assigned, was nearing 920,000 acres. It is the largest fire in the history of
      California. The Caldor Fire was also nearby and threatened South Lake Tahoe
      which was over 200,000 acres.            California had an open Emergency
      Management Assistance Compact (EMAC) request to continue to send
      personnel as long as the City could.



4.0   Closed Session: By Motion

      The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and
      convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional
      competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or
      reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real
      property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.

4.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to recess to a closed session to discuss
      Property. Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.



Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   The prayer was offered by Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager, and the
      Pledge of Allegiance was led by Jake Sorensen, Network Administrator.

3.0   Proclamation: Welcoming Week September 10-19, 2021

                                                                         Page 11 of 36
      Mayor Walker read a proclamation for Welcoming Week, which centered
      around the influx of refugees who were coming into the state and area. The
      proclamation was in conjunction with Salt Lake County:

      Whereas across the country communities are celebrating National Welcoming
      Week which is September 10-19th, and whereas Draper City is home to people
      of all backgrounds including those who are not born in the United States but
      call it home, and whereas welcoming all individuals enhances Draper City’s
      cultural fabric, economic growth, and quality of life for current and future
      generations, and whereas Draper City is committed to racial and ethnic
      equality and inclusion of all residents in creating the vibrant foundation of our
      community; and whereas now more than ever we must come together as a
      community with compassion, unity, welcome and respect, and with shared
      vision that all community residents are safe and their civil rights are protected;
      and whereas Draper City encourages the business community, civic groups,
      other arms of government and community institutions to undertake initiatives
      beyond this resolution to make the region a welcoming place for new and long-
      term residents alike; now therefore, I Troy K. Walker, Mayor of Draper City, the
      State of Utah, along with members of the City Council do hereby recognize on
      this 7th day of September 2021 the value of ensuring that all are welcome here
      and encourage all residents of Draper City to welcome all who live in and visit
      our community.

      Mayor Walker added that he would attend an event on Friday in conjunction
      with Welcoming Week.

4.0   Public Comments
Mayor Walker explained that this was an opportunity to make comments to the
Council on items that were not on the agenda. Everyone who wanted to speak had
the opportunity to do so. Everyone had three minutes to speak. These were a hard
three minutes. He said that you did not have to use the full three minutes and that
the Council liked it when you could be briefer. He noted that if residents wanted to
ask the Council questions they were rhetorical. He said that the Council might
answer the questions later on in the evening. Residents could always email any of
the members of the Council at any time to get answers.

4.1   Don Hantla said that he owned Happy Trails Running. He said that they held
      several events in the Corner Canyon area. In 2019 all of their races were held

                                                                         Page 12 of 36
      with great success. There were no issues with runners or the City. In 2020,
      they had to cancel their events because of COVID. Then in the fall of 2020,
      they were told by Parks and Recreation that 2021 events looked good and that
      they could submit their applications. Happy Trails Running did submit
      applications for permits and those applications were accepted and paid for.
      Because of this, they opened up registration for their races. It was then voted
      in January of 2021 that private events would not be allowed in the Corner
      Canyon area, causing Happy Trails Running to cancel the planned races. This
      led to a lot of upset runners and people, many of whom were Draper
      residents. Despite this, a week after Happy Trails races would have been,
      Draper City held a 5K and 10K race on some of the same trails, even though
      private entities had been told that they needed to cancel their events because
      of high trail usage and safety concerns. Even more upsetting was that he had
      found out a month ago that the City was holding a race called The Draper City
      Corner Canyon Half Marathon on October 2, 2021. This was after Happy Trails
      Running had to cancel their Corner Canyon Half Marathon that was scheduled
      for June 12, 2021. He said that in the way that the names were similar, the
      Draper City race used almost the same trails as the Happy Trails Running race.
      He said that he would ask that Draper City hold itself to the same standards it
      asks of its residents and businesses owners. He felt that Happy Trails Running
      constituents and other residents should have the same opportunities as City
      events were currently given. As of right now, what Parks and Recreation told
      him was that he could not submit applications for next year either. Despite
      the City holding copycats of Happy Trails Running events, they couldn’t hold
      their events next year.

4.2   Rod Coom addressed Airbnbs. He first thanked the Council for recognizing
      the subject and to pursue further review of the issue to get more information.
      He said that the subject was close to his heart because his neighbor, or the
      person who purchased his neighboring house, had turned it into a nightly, ten-
      person Airbnb. He charged $210 a night for up to 10 people. He said that the
      property was not owner-occupied. He said that if more people knew what was
      happening, residents would have more of an issue. He said that there was an
      issue of quality of life––he was not being judgmental––on what quality of life
      is, but attracting families into neighborhoods would be a challenge if there
      were a lot of these types of properties. He recognized that people had their
      property rights, but perhaps that was only true within some context and
      guidelines to make sure that what someone did with their properties did not
      detract from safety. He said that in talking with the owner’s nephew, his goal

                                                                       Page 13 of 36
      was to make money and check other boxes to be legal. He had no real interest
      in contributing to the City, even though the family owns several other houses.
      He noted that other states such as California and Oregon had put in minimum
      occupancy durations. He felt as though the City should implement something
      of a similar flavor to try and preserve neighborhood environments while being
      reasonable about people’s right to rent out their homes. He said that he might
      happen to live next to a worst-case scenario, but that he didn’t appreciate the
      owner’s request that he keep an eye on the property and communicate any
      infringements so that short-term residents could be kicked out. He said that
      he was not the unpaid manager.

4.3   Ted Drake said that he was the clinical director at a residential facility in
      Draper. He said that he was before the Council to report that the Ramada
      Hotel, which sat adjacent to their property, had been a nuisance for many
      years. He wanted to come before the Council and Mayor to reiterate that it
      was a problematic business in Draper City. Because the residential facility was
      right next to the Ramada Inn, they were subject to all of the drug
      paraphernalia. He noted that they were a residential center for 11-17-year-
      olds, kids from all over the country. They were emotionally unstable kids––
      depressed, suicidal, and some substance abuse. He said that it could be
      imagined that if someone is a substance abuse kid and smells marijuana that
      it would not be good for your mental health and certainly not good for
      treatment. In addition, he said that hypodermic needles regularly slipped
      underneath the fence between the two properties. He said that although they
      take pictures, report them to the police, and dispose of them it was not a good
      situation. He then listed several specific incidents that were on public record
      through police reports. In June of 2016, a gentleman shot up the Ramada and
      fired 16 bullets, some of whose holes ended up in the treatment center’s
      building, including their roof. He emphasized that this was an establishment
      with children. Then he noted that the gentleman who shot up the hotel was a
      wanted felon who was a white supremacist. The man left a loaded gun on the
      treatment center’s property. Despite three agencies looking for the gun,
      including both Draper City Police & Fire, the firearm was not found. Then, on
      July 2, 2016, a highly suicidal kid found the gun, which was loaded. Mr. Drake
      said that by the grace of God, he did not use the gun to harm himself or anyone
      else. On July 15, 2017, they had to chase off intruders on their property who
      were stealing gas from the center’s vehicles. In November of 2017 a
      gentleman who was speeding down Minuteman Drive and crashed into Virg’s
      and died. One of their staff was the first on the scene and the first responders

                                                                        Page 14 of 36
      said that they thought the guy was staying at the Ramada. On October 27,
      2018, an individual staying at the Ramada got in a high-speed chase and
      crashed through the Ramada fence into the treatment center’s property and
      died.

4.4   Stacy Austin said that she worked at Youth Care. She said that she worked
      there for almost 20 years. She said that their goal at Youth Care was to provide
      a safe environment for kids in treatment. She said that as was mentioned by
      Dr. Drake in the previous public comment, maintaining a safe environment
      had become increasingly difficult with the Ramada Hotel and the goings-on
      next door. She said that they had come before the Draper Planning
      Commission and the Draper City Council. She said that the last time she was
      in the room someone from the dais told her, “If you don’t like your neighbors,
      just move.” She said that made her very sad because the message she heard
      from that comment was that Draper City approved of the Ramada over their
      facility, that Draper City was okay with what was going on at the Ramada Hotel.
      This hotel was known to the police for drugs, prostitution, vagrancy, thefts,
      and weapons. She could not believe that Draper City would value an
      establishment like that over a business that was trying to serve children. She
      said that Youth Care was founded in Draper City 32 years ago. She said that
      they were Draper. She said that they were before the Council again tonight
      because they hoped to spark some interest in a collaborative solution, a
      community solution for the Ramada Hotel. She said that she was pretty sure
      that the Council would not want to work next to a Draper business like the
      hotel. She said that it was exhausting. She said that she was pretty sure they
      would not want your child to live next to a Draper neighbor like the Ramada.

4.5   Colton Cox said that he was concerned about something that could be a
      potential issue: the right to open carry. He said that although Utah was an
      open carry state, because of different mentalities, those folks get harassed for
      the sole fact that they were open carrying. He said that he was a proud
      concealed carrier and noted that he was not doing that during the meeting.
      He wanted to lay down that a person in the State of Utah had the right to open
      carry and should not be subject to harassment by people and especially law
      enforcement. Although he had not heard of this happening, he was concerned
      that it might, especially because, according to Mr. Cox, Governor Spencer Cox
      passed a carrier bill in March of 2021.




                                                                        Page 15 of 36
5.0   Consent Items
         a. Approval of Resolution #21-45, appointing Jason Wiggins as a member
            of the Draper City Historic Preservation Commission.

5.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                     the   Consent     Items.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

5.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-46, a resolution of the Draper City Council
      amending the Draper City Police pay plan.

6.1   David Dobbins, City Manager, said that several other agencies throughout the
      county and state had made efforts to increase their police pay. This started
      when Salt Lake City announced that they were making significant increases.
      Multiple agencies in the county followed suit and have implemented those
      increases. He noted that the Draper City Police Department was fully staffed
      for the first time in several years. However, some of Draper’s neighboring
      cities such as Sandy and Salt Lake City have quite a few vacancies and are
      offering higher pay. He said that when those increases happened in other
      cities, Draper was now faced with losing its officers to neighboring cities who
      were paying more or increasing Draper’s compensation for police. He said that
      he sat down with John Eining, Police Chief and Draper’s HR Director for quite
      some time. This item was a proposal to change the current police pay scale.
      He said that if they did nothing, Draper ran the risk of losing its current officers
      to neighboring cities. It was also currently difficult to recruit new officers. He
      also noted that the cost of hiring new police officers would be time-consuming
      and expensive from a financial standpoint.

      He said that changing the pay scale did come with a significant cost to the City.
      It would be about $700,000 annually. He said that it could be paid for this year
      through ongoing sales tax funds. The City budgeted sales tax revenues
      conservatively and the amount coming in was higher than what was budgeted.
      There was also one-time money that could be used this year, and perhaps in
      FY 2021-2022. However, the cost would be incurred no matter what. He said
      that he would rather pay more now to keep existing officers than to lose
      officers, then make a pay adjustment in a year once the City lost them to be

                                                                           Page 16 of 36
      able to be competitive to recruit new officers. In his mind, the City was going
      to have to pay more to be competitive.

      He said that he felt as though Draper officers deserved this pay. They put their
      lives on the line and contribute to the community. He recommended that they
      adopt the pay scale now and then have staff come back with the budget
      adjustments later so that Draper officers know that the City was committed to
      them in response to their commitment to the City. He said that he did not
      think that they had lost any officers because of pay so far, but that when you
      tell an officer that they can make $10,000 more in a neighboring City, he didn’t
      know how to ask them to make that kind of a sacrifice.

6.2   John Eining, Police Chief, added that when the force lost an officer there was a
      qualitative amount that was hard to define on the loss of the training and
      experience that was lost with them. He said that this was hard to put a dollar
      amount to, but it was notable. He said that in the past, the City had lost mid-
      range officers to other cities because they were paying $5-6 more an hour. He
      said that he was not going to lose his new hires; he was going to lose his
      experienced people that go and benefit another agency. He said that Salt
      Lake’s pay increase was smart. They understood that attracting new people
      out of the academy didn’t matter because they had to undergo so much
      training, but the ability to attract laterals shortened the training process to a
      matter of weeks because an experienced officer only needed to be
      trained/familiarized with the new City.

6.3   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she was proud of the team that Chief
      Eining had built in Draper. She said that she felt that he went above and
      beyond with the Draper City Police Department and she fully supported the
      kind of compassionate and community-based policing program that he strived
      to offer Draper residents. She felt that they all appreciated that tremendously.

      Councilmember F. Lowry agreed. He felt that it was vital that they do all they
      could to help keep the police force. He said that he felt it was the Council’s
      responsibility to mirror the commitment made by Chief Eining and the current
      force and that turnover did not keep the City safe.

6.4   Councilmember Roberts asked if the market dynamics going forward could be
      discussed. He said that there was often a labor shortage throughout a lot of
      industries. He wanted to know about the supply and demand and how

                                                                        Page 17 of 36
      personnel might look in a year or two. He felt like this might be a never-ending
      cycle.

      Mr. Dobbins said that he thought that this would be a one-time change.
      Because Salt Lake City had so many vacancies, they decided that they had to
      make a drastic adjustment. Other cities then responded. He said some cities
      said that they were going to be slightly above Salt Lake City because they want
      to say that they were the highest paying. Other cities said that they were going
      to be close. Draper City has always been in the upper half regarding
      compensation but was never going to be the top. He said that the City had
      made that clear to all of its employees. He said that most of the employees
      would probably respond positively to this change, even though they could go
      somewhere else and make an extra dollar or two an hour because of the
      environment and culture created by Chief Eining. He felt that residents treated
      officers with respect and kindness, which said a lot.

      He said that he had spoken to a lot of other City managers. It was not going
      to be a never-ending cycle. Cities would probably bump up one at a time. He
      did not see how it would be possible for cities to do a drastic change like this
      repeatedly. It was horribly expensive and a fiscal reality that cities had to face.
      He said that no elected or appointed official wanted to do a tax increase.

6.5   Councilmember Green said that he believed that people were the most
      valuable resource. He wanted to be able to attract the best and brightest
      talent. He said that keeping the best talent was the best thing that they could
      do for their community. He was fully supportive of the pay increase. He also
      wanted to consider retention bonuses for mid-range officers. This would be a
      one-time cost to the City. If the officers left, they would have to repay the
      bonus. He also wanted to consider a housing allowance. If an officer lived in
      Draper, he wanted to be able to offer them a tax-free housing allowance that
      allows them to live in the community. He knew that these things were big ideas
      that would cost money in the budget. He was not a fan of tax increases or
      living outside of the City’s means, but if there was a way to come up with
      creative solutions to keep people, he was supportive.

      Mayor Walker added that this was part of the political upsweep that occurred
      with the defund police movement. When the defund was going on, officers
      left cities, and then all of a sudden, they figured out that cities need police.
      This is what happened in Salt Lake City. To get the police back, departments

                                                                          Page 18 of 36
have to raise the pay again. He didn’t want it to come across that police officers
were not worth the pay increase, but he did want people to understand that
Draper had never been in the “defund the police” mode. That had never
crossed the City’s mind. Draper likes its police department and appreciates
the work they do for the City. He said that he wanted to give Chief Eining some
credit. He said that it might not have been known that there was an incident
in the middle of the social upheaval last summer where one of Draper’s
officers responded to a call where a man had an assault rifle. The officer
showed up at the scene, and in Mayor Walker’s legal opinion, had every right
to shoot the individual at the moment he got there, but because our officer
was experienced, a combat veteran and an experienced officer, he allowed the
guy to not get killed and the guy took it. That was impressive. Given what he
had to navigate in his own life during that time of social upheaval, he was
grateful to have those experienced police officers be the person to respond to
this incident. He said that he still receives phone calls about how the City had
screwed it up. He said that they didn’t. This demonstrated the quality of
officers in Draper. There was a similar quality amongst the Fire Department.
He said that they have tried to address competitive pay across public safety
fields. Frankly, people want the government to do a lot of stuff for them.
However, the role of the government is to make sure that people have clean
water, that the dirty water leaves, and that there is public safety. He explained
that it was expensive to staff these individuals. Despite this, that was the role
of government: to provide public safety. He said that he also supported the
pay scale increase. He also said hats off to the Council because they had never
once talked about defunding public safety or looked to do anything other than
be on board with good quality public safety across fire, police, and public
works.

Councilmember Roberts asked if the proposed increase was sufficient to
remain competitive with neighboring cities. Chief Eining said that the increase
would put Draper about fourth in comparison to other cities. He said that this
would place Draper above Salt Lake City. However, there seems to be a
commitment by some in Salt Lake for them to be the highest paying so there
could be an adjustment there. Because of this, they might adjust again.
However, to Councilmember Robert’s question about when all of this was
going to stop, he suspected it would stop soon strictly because of the fiscal
constraints. Making these kinds of adjustments was a serious matter for all of
these cities. Salt Lake didn’t know how they were going to fund the increase.
He said that one of his best friends was a deputy chief in Salt Lake and shared

                                                                   Page 19 of 36
      that they were using one-time funding. The increase amounted to $9 million
      for Salt Lake City and they were not exactly sure how they would fund the
      increase moving forward.      However, the increase does make Draper
      competitive. He said that Herriman had recently made the move, too. They
      were above Draper on the starting end, but below the City on the topped-out
      end.

6.5   Councilmember Green moved to approve Resolution #21-45. Councilmember
      T. Lowery seconded the motion.

6.6   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1499, an ordinance amending Title 9 of Draper
      City Municipal Code in order to amend and enact regulations pertaining to
      exemptions from the title, definitions, administrative and development review
      procedures, second kitchens in single-family dwellings, and accessory dwelling
      units. This application is known as the City Initiated Accessory Dwelling Unit
      (ADU) Text Amendment. (Legislative Action

7.1   Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner, said that the City had been talking about
      this issue for the last few months. The presentation to the Council tonight was
      a culmination of the previous discussions with the Council and the Planning
      Commission. The goal tonight was to present the proposed text and map. The
      next item on the agenda would be an implementation plan to see how to move
      forward once the ordinance was adopted. Staff would like for the Council to
      hold the public hearing tonight, but to continue the text amendment and
      implementation plan to the next meeting that way staff had a chance to
      amend and update the text based on anything that came out of the discussion.

7.2   Todd Draper, Planner, said that this was the culminated response from HB82
      that required the City to adopt an ordinance to allow for internal accessory
      dwelling units (IADUs). He said that he would go through the proposed
      changes and additions to DCMC, what updates to other affected sections of
      the ordinance related to ADUs needed to occur including exemptions from
      Title 9, definitions, administrative and development review procedures,
      second kitchens in single-family dwellings, and detached accessory dwelling
      units (D-ADUs).



                                                                       Page 20 of 36
In section 9-1-170 the main change was to remove SunCrest and South
Mountain from being exempt from this ordinance. The attorney crafted some
language that would ensure that this ordinance would apply to those areas as
well.

The second section, 9-3-040 had definitions. Some of these were moved from
the ADU chapter of the code, chapter 31. There were also additional
definitions that were necessary because of changes in state law. Some of the
important additions were three definitions for accessory dwelling unit (ADU),
internal accessory dwelling unit (IADU), and detached accessory dwelling unit
(DADU). Definitions for a dwelling occupant, a primary dwelling, and an owner
of record were also added.

Section 9-5-210 outlined how the City proposed to process ADUs through an
ADU permit process. All current ADUs would be required to get a permit and
to renew it annually. The main reason for the annual renewal was to make
sure that they were still owner-occupied as required. The section also included
provisions for transferring a permit or for surrendering a permit if the ADU
was removed from the property.

Sections 9-30-010 and 9-30-020 addressed second kitchens in a single-family
dwelling. The staff made some additional clarifications to tighten up the
ordinance. Part of this section also addresses pieces in the ADU chapter to
make sure that it was clear that if someone wanted to add a second kitchen
into their single-family home that they were allowed to do that, but they could
not create a second unit or an IADU.

The main chapter to get changes was Chapter 31, the ADU chapter. Sections
9-31-010 and 9-31-020 simplified the purpose and scope which allowed ADUs
in primarily residential zones, regardless of if they were attached or detached.
IADUs were restricted by a zoning map and DADUs were restricted by the
square footage of the lot.

In section 9-31-030, the general regulations, IADUs were not allowed on lots
less than 6,000 square feet, could not be rented for periods less than 30 days,
had to be owner-occupied as their primary residence, and they had to get an
ADU permit.




                                                                 Page 21 of 36
Section 9-31-40 addressed DADU development standards. DADUs were
required to have one additional parking stall, structures had to comply with
the setbacks of the primary structure, and that they have an architectural
design that was complementary and/or matches the primary dwelling. IADUs
also had to have an additional parking stall. The code also made clear that if
an owner decided to use garage space for an IADU that they would have to
replace that parking somewhere else on the property. As was allowed by state
law, this section of code prohibits altering the exterior of the dwelling to create
an IADU such that it would look like something other than a single-family
dwelling.

Section 9-31-055 outlined deviations. This section was in response to a request
from the Council and Planning Commission to look at ways that some of the
larger lots that were being restricted because of the other features like the
roadway and potential off-street parking could potentially have an IADU. The
section simply allowed the Planning Commission to approve a deviation if a
request met a couple of basic criteria, mainly that they have two or more off-
street parking spaces and the lot is at least 20,000 square feet.

Section 9-31-060 outlined the rest of how the process would be done. The City
would record a notice on the deed so that it was known that a property had an
ADU. This would also be helpful to future property owners.

Section 9-31-070 explained the process for non-conforming units. He said that
existing DADUs that were not in compliance would be able to continue as they
were, but that they would be required to come in and get the ADU permit. This
ordinance would also allow those folks to get a separate address and mailbox,
something that the previous ordinance did not allow. That was both for
privacy and security concerns

The last section, 9-31-080, addressed violations should someone not want to
comply. One of the measures allowed by the state for enforcement was for
fines and liens. He said that Ms. Jastremsky could talk a little more about the
financial side.

The final piece to the ordinance was the IADU map showing the areas where
the IADUs would be restricted in the City. The map in the current ordinance
restricted about 17.2% of the primary residential zones in Draper. The City
was limited to restricting up to 25% of residential zones. He noted that in the

                                                                    Page 22 of 36
      map the area in SunCrest was marked out as there were some regulations that
      were separate in that development agreement that might apply. Staff
      recommended including SunCrest in the restricted areas. If that were done,
      the total restricted area would be increased to 25%. He said there were still a
      few other properties that the staff was considering individually if they should
      be in or out.

      The ordinance was reviewed by the Planning Commission on August 12, 2021,
      and gave a positive recommendation with a 5-0 vote.

7.4   Ms. Jastremsky addressed the potential fees for ADU permits. She said that
      staff recommended a $450 initial application fee and then a $50 application
      fee for annual renewals. Those fees were based on a previous fee study done
      by the City around temporary use permits that were done at the staff level and
      did not have public hearings, etc. She said that ADU permits were going to
      have a little bit more research. The deviation process would also have a $50
      application fee.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked what the reasoning was for a $450 application
      fee. Ms. Jastremsky said that the initial $450 fee was to help cover the cost of
      processing the applications where research would be involved to verify that it
      was legal, etc. The annual renewal fee was just to make sure that the property
      was still owner-occupied.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if an inspection would have to be done as a
      part of the permitting process. Ms. Jastremsky said given the records in City
      files, potentially.

      Councilmember Vawdrey asked about section 9-32-070 that addressed
      nonconforming units. She asked if Ms. Jastremsky could clarify what legally-
      established units were. Ms. Jastremsky said that staff knew that the chances
      of there being a legal nonconforming ADU out there was high and a possibility
      that the City needed to account for

      Mr. Dobbins asked if Ms. Jastremsky would define what legal nonconforming
      meant. Ms. Jastremsky said that a legal nonconforming use was a use that
      complied with City code at the time the unit was created, but a change in code
      or zoning occurred so the dwelling no longer conformed, but it was legally
      established and could continue and remain even though a neighbor could not

                                                                       Page 23 of 36
establish it under the current code. If there was an ADU that was legally
established, those owners will be allowed to continue operating but would be
required to come in and get the permit so that the City knew the ADU was
there and was accounting for it.        Essentially these ADUs would be
grandfathered in.

Mr. Dobbins said that the legally nonconforming state was a status that a lot
of properties had for many different reasons. If you did something on your
property 20 years ago and it was legal at the time and then the City changed
its code the City did not go out and say to all of these property owners that
they needed to bring their property up to code. He said that legally
nonconforming was very different than illegally nonconforming, which is when
a property was never legal and to the code to start with.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if an example would be if a rental were in front
of the home. He said that he knew of a property where that was the case and
that would be contrary to the current code. Ms. Jastremsky said that was right.
Staff would research to make sure that it was legally established in the first
place, but in theory that would be an example.

Councilmember Vawdrey asked if there were any legal IADUs currently. Ms.
Jastremsky said that she didn’t know. She said that the 1990-1999 code did
have an allotment for IADUs. They were restricted for rental reasons. She did
not know if the City issued permits previously for those dwellings. She said
that typically building permits like that would have been filed as basement
finishes. The City did not have good records to know if any IADUs existed from
the 90s. She said that it was possible that there could be some out there and
that once staff started to research individual properties that they could find
proof.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the question was how to identify which
properties were legal IADUs.

Councilmember Green asked if those people got a CUP or how they were
identified as legally nonconforming. He asked if they were going to go around
and tag those and the people who were not would be told to fix it. Ms.
Jastremsky said that it was up to the property owner to prove that they have a
legal nonconforming use. She said that the staff’s goal was to get people to
come in and apply for the permit to allow staff to do the research. She said

                                                                 Page 24 of 36
that at the end of the day it would be working with the individual property
owners.

Mr. Dobbins said that the state code intended to set foundations for going
forward. He said that he felt like the City’s biggest issue would be people who
have had IADUs in the past who had not received a permit for some time. He
said that it was those situations that would take up a lot of staff time because
neighbors would complain about neighbors. This came back around to the
question about how to enforce the new ordinance.

Councilmember Green asked what would happen in cases where someone
never got a permit in the first place and was now in a prohibited zone. He said
that they would not be grandfathered in because they would have an illegally
nonconforming use. The City would then have to figure out how to enforce
the code on those folks. Mr. Dobbins said that was correct. He said that if
someone called in and said that they thought that their neighbor had been
doing this illegally, staff would have to decide how they were going to respond
to the complaint.

Ms. Jastremsky said that the proposed language did have a violations section
in it about noticing the property owner of the violation. They could also be
fined or a lien could be placed on the property. She also noted that the next
item on the agenda was the implementation policy which did address
enforcement a little bit such as providing some grace periods for people to
come into compliance, including the removal of an illegal unit or getting a
permit for one that was allowed.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that there had been two conversations, one
about IADUs and one about DADUs. She asked if someone could have both
an IADU and a DADU. Ms. Jastremsky said that it was included in the code that
if you had a DADU you did not qualify for an IADU. If you built a DADU you
forfeited your right to an IADU.

Mr. Draper said that there was a very rare scenario, thanks to the way that
state law was written, that someone who had an existing nonconforming unit
could potentially also have an IADU. In general, though, the code is limited to
one ADU, either IADU or DADU, per property.




                                                                 Page 25 of 36
Councilmember Roberts said that he felt like part of the job of the Council was
to balance the property rights of the people with the rights of neighbors and
their quality of living. He said that he felt that this got the City closer to that
balance. He asked if much thought had been given to the cost of enforcement
to the City and how that would impact the taxpayer.

Ms. Jastremsky addressed the needed resources for enforcement. Staff felt
that they would need another code enforcement officer and another planning
coordinator to be able to process the applications, do the research and do the
enforcement.

Mr. Dobbins said that he did not know how the City would pay for it within the
existing budget. He recognized that put the City in a difficult position, but he
also did not want to tell the Council that he could find resources to hire two
new full-time employees to be able to do that. He didn’t have that answer.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that they were being forced by the state to have
to implement all of this. Mr. Dobbins said yes and no. He said that Draper did
not have to adopt these regulations. The Council could just say that people
are allowed to have ADUs under state code and that would leave things as they
were in the past: up to the honor system for someone to come in for a permit.
There was a wide range of actions the Council could take. He said that the big
question was what would happen if the Council adopted the ordinance and
then began to get everyone telling on their neighbors. The need to respond to
those complaints was going to be a very time-intensive process.

Councilmember Roberts asked if they had looked at the revenue side of the
equation. He said that there were permit fees, but he assumed those would
just cover the cost of staff time. Councilmember Green said that you couldn’t
do that under state law. The City could only charge to meet their costs. They
cannot make a profit.

Mr. Dobbins said that the City’s current code enforcement officer did not
generate enough fines to cover the cost of his position. It was just a function
of the City that residents expected the City to fund out of the General Fund.

Councilmember F. Lowry thanked Ms. Jastremsky and Mr. Draper for all of the
work they did on this issue. He wanted to clarify that on the restricted map,



                                                                    Page 26 of 36
      all of the areas were being treated consistently based on street width, lot size,
      etc. The areas that were restricted were not randomly decided.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that was correct. She said that both South Mountain and
      SunCrest were added to the map. If they were not they would have been tied
      to the 1999 code. She said that there were some ADU provisions in that
      version of the code, but it was not nearly as robust as the proposed ordinance.

7.5   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

7.6   Dan Portwood, resident, expressed his appreciation for this issue being on the
      agenda. He said that he valued that the Council had seriously considered the
      issue. He had noticed since he moved to Draper three years ago that the ADU
      issue had become serious all over the state. He noticed that there had been a
      lot of investors who had purchased houses and turned them into apartment
      buildings. He said that when the state came out with HB82 it gave a lot more
      room for that. He said that if you went into his neighborhood, there were at
      least 50 homes that had at least three apartments. If you drove through the
      neighborhood at night there were probably seven or eight cars parked around
      each house. There was one house on Radial Drive kitty-corner from him where
      there were three apartments in the basement and one upstairs. He said that
      about a year and a half ago the City had to restrict the parking on Pepi Band
      Road because the street was too narrow to park on both sides. There are so
      many apartments in garages and basements that the neighborhood has
      become degraded. He said that he liked what the City attorney said at the
      Planning Commission meeting: you can’t grandfather in something illegal. He
      said that he hoped that the Council would take HB82 and turn it into something
      positive. He said that there was a great revenue source for the permits: charge
      $1,000 for someone to build an ADU and charge $500 a year for a permit. He
      said that if people want to invest, let them invest.

7.7   Josh Christensen, resident, said that he hoped that the Council approved this
      ordinance. He said that he lived in a neighborhood where the ADUs had a
      negative effect. His area had 80 homes. Of those 80 units over 120 separate
      and distinct units had been developed on 5,000-7,000 square foot lots. He said
      that on any given night there were a couple of hundred cars parked on the
      street. He said that the DMV said that the average household in Utah owns 2.5
      cars. If you multiply that by three units in some of the small houses that’s a lot
      of vehicles. He explained that his neighborhood was a perfect example of the

                                                                         Page 27 of 36
      disastrous outcome that could happen. He said that he understood that they
      would forgo ever renting their basement and that their area was never built
      for that. He said that he lived in a house for 15 years close to all of the rentals
      and finally they had enough and had to move out of the neighborhood a
      couple of streets away. However, these investors keep encroaching and
      getting into nicer houses and developing those in the same way. He hoped
      that this would put a stop to that movement. He recognized that there would
      be some cost to it, but as a Draper resident, it mattered a lot to him, more than
      a sign on the street. He also thought that there could be additional fees. These
      places have multiple dwellings that put additional pressure on police and
      schools, while only paying a single property tax.

7.8   Michelle Lundberg said that she built her house four years ago. She said that
      she had a lot of empathy for the housing issues in Utah. She recognized that
      there were a lot of people who couldn’t afford housing. She said that it was
      very competitive. She said that when she built her house four years ago she
      had the luxury of living in her parents’ basement. They had a large home and
      didn’t live in Draper. This gave her the time to shop for a house. She said that
      she had lost out to a lot of homes to people who were investing with all cash.
      She said that there were so many young professionals and families that
      wanted to move to Draper and didn’t have the opportunity because investors
      could come in and turn a single-family home into a three- or four-unit dwelling.
      This made roads unsafe because there were too many cars, etc. She wanted
      to make sure that her friends and family who wanted to move to Draper would
      be able to because there would be affordable homes. She appreciated that
      the City had considered that some areas do have the ability to accommodate
      parking.

7.9   Zack Lambert said that he lived just around the corner from Ms. Lundberg. He
      said that when he started looking into ADUs, it was eye-opening. He said that
      in just three houses around him there were 28 cars associated with those three
      homes. He said this made the streets incredibly dangerous. He said getting a
      call in his neighborhood was probably the worst nightmare for the Fire
      Department. He said that because these homes are converted to multiple
      units they are unaffordable to normal people. There is a home in his
      neighborhood listed on KSL that is described as having three units and was
      listed for more than a million dollars. He said that it is the same layout as his
      home and that it is not a million-dollar house. He also talked about how
      dangerous it was to walk the streets because of the number of cars. He said

                                                                          Page 28 of 36
       that having spoken with some of the people who lived in the basement
       apartments that the slumlords do not care about upkeep. Several people in
       the area have gone to the landowner looking for some sort of help because
       the structures were falling apart, the owners don’t care. He said that these
       residences were cash cows, “if you don’t want to live here, I have a line of
       people who will come in and take your place.” He said that this was not just a
       future problem. It was a current problem.

7.10   Shon Wettstein said that he owned a house on Winfield Scott just below the
       amphitheater. He said that he lived there for several years until he decided to
       move because of this problem. He said that the property was now a rental,
       but that he did so as a single-family dwelling unit, as it should be. He said that
       there was no reason that these houses that, for the most part, were on less
       than 10,000 square foot lots should have three families living in them. He said
       that when his next-door neighbor, who had a 6,000 square foot lot rented his
       basement, garage, and upstairs and lives in a neighboring city and then the
       one up from him was also renting their house and every other house on the
       street has a garage apartment, the number of vehicles adds up. You could not
       even pave a parking lot big enough in the backyard to park all of these cars.
       He said that it was a joke and needed to be fixed. He said that he would be
       surprised if any of the dwellings were legally conforming. He said that it was a
       tragedy that had compounded itself over the years and had cost the
       neighborhood a lot of good families. He said that it was not going to get better
       unless the City did something about it.

7.11   Cameron Goff said that everyone who has spoken were all neighbors and that
       the issue of ADUs impacted their lives. He said that his family used to live on
       Old Saddle Road and moved three streets over. He said that his family was
       next-door neighbors with the Lamberts. He said that right after they moved,
       the new owner stated an intention to turn the 3,000 square foot rambler into
       a three-unit rental property. He said that they would have had to do a lot of
       work to get it there. He said that he was not sure that the new owner had done
       this yet, but he knew that was their intention. He said that he recognized that
       there were a lot of questions about enforcement and that they were fair
       questions. He said that he was going to leave that to smarter people than him
       to figure out. However, there was a need, especially in the area of those who
       had given public comment. He said that other residents had already
       adequately described how chaotic it was.



                                                                          Page 29 of 36
7.12   Vickie Christensen said that she had lived in Draper for 19 years. She said that
       her family moved a few streets over because she was so frustrated with all of
       the neighbors and cars as she was trying to leave her home. She said that she
       was almost hit multiple times by people coming and going. She said that
       before these types of properties it used to be a great city and neighborhood.
       You used to be able to hear kids playing outside if you had your windows open
       and if the neighbors put out cones people would slow down for the kids. Now,
       she has to hold her kids’ hand when walking to school because of the number
       of parked cars. She said that not only can you not see where you are going
       because of the cars, but that there had been times when the buses could not
       get through to get to the school. She said that she knew that it was a big issue.
       She asked that the citizens could help the City. They could map out half of the
       neighborhood and identify the properties that they knew had multiple ADUs
       and make staff’s job easier. She also noted the domino effect of what
       happened over the years such as the yards. She said that the owners all used
       to live in the house but have all kind of jumped on the bandwagon and said
       that they could all make tons of money. She said that some of the owners had
       four to six houses in the neighborhood and were bringing in their friends to
       buy more houses. She noted all of the dog feces that built up, too. She said
       that all of the relationships that they used to have with good family neighbors
       had led to fights and disputes. She said that there had been several instances
       where firearms had been threatened or pulled. She said that the situation had
       blown up and was out of control. She requested that the Council do anything
       they could to help them to keep them in Draper. She asked that the Council
       send the message that they care as much as residents to put the
       neighborhood back to what it was.

7.13   Abby Shaha was also a resident of the same neighborhood. She said that she
       grew up in Draper and has lived in the City for 31 years. She said that when
       she got married she wanted to stay in Draper. She said that what the Council
       was hearing all of these residents say was that they appreciated that regulating
       ADUs came at a cost and that the Council was an elected body who had to
       figure out how to weigh and balance hard things. But what they were also
       hearing residents say was that the path might be tricky but they value having
       their neighborhoods not be multiple dwelling units and that they value those
       over other things. She said that this issue had driven people out of their
       neighborhood. She said that her family moved from Senior Band Road
       because they started having kids and she didn’t feel safe letting them outside.
       She said at the time they lived one street over from Oak Hollow Elementary

                                                                         Page 30 of 36
       School and if her daughter had been old enough to go there she would have
       never allowed her to walk because she couldn’t name five people on her street
       who had been there three months before. She said that all of the statistics
       followed: crime rate, not knowing your neighbors, high turnover, number of
       police, and ambulance calls. This was true except for the fact that police and
       ambulances don’t come. She said that she saw an ambulance turn around
       because they couldn’t fit up the street; it was too narrow because of the cars.
       She said that if you could not fit emergency services and facilities up a road
       there was a whole different set of problems. She appreciated the costs and
       was glad that the Council brought up the nuances of enforcement. She asked
       what the point would be to have the ordinance if the City was not going to
       enforce it. She thanked the Council for taking that seriously. She had every
       hope that the Council would take this seriously because this wasn’t the City
       that any of them wanted to live in. The neighborhood wasn’t the place that
       any of them wanted to put roots down. She said that they had been told that
       they live in the ”Wild West” of Draper. She said that Draper should not have a
       ”Wild West”. She said again that she recognized the costs, but that she hoped
       that the Council heard that this was important to these residents and that it
       was making good people leave Draper.

7.14   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

7.15   Councilmember Green moved to adopt ordinance #1499.

7.16   Mike Barker, City Attorney, asked if the Council would mind waiting until the
       next meeting. The staff wanted to do a stress test.

7.17   Councilmember T. Lowery said that when the map was created with City
       planners it was in response to concerns brought forward by the City’s fire and
       police chiefs who said that these were areas in which the fire truck, ambulance,
       or school bus were struggling to pass.

7.18   Councilmember Roberts said that the irony was that HB82 was initially passed
       to help address the housing crisis. The irony here as Ms. Lundberg pointed
       out or the example of the listing for a million dollars was that the multiple
       dwelling units made the housing crisis worse.

7.19   Mayor Walker said that he felt like the City made that point several different
       times during the legislative session. He said that he would like for all of the

                                                                        Page 31 of 36
       residents to figure out who their house representative was, Jeff Stenquist, and
       who their state senator was, Dan McKay, and reach out to them because this
       was foisted upon your local elected officials, based upon this concept, that it
       was going to do what Councilmember Roberts said, make housing more
       available. He said that he had personally made the point in the legislative
       hearing that it was going to drive the cost of houses up because there would
       now be two dwellings in every house. He said that it was a hotly debated issue.
       He said that the enforcement piece, the ability to regulate was something that
       he fought for. He said that this was a compromise. He said that it would be
       interesting to see when the City started enforcing how compromised the
       legislature is on the issue. He wanted residents to know that the Council works
       hard to protect Draper. He said that the legislature was 100% out looking to
       do this kind of stuff to cities. They want to take the City’s land use authority
       away, etc. He said that he was a mayor who didn't have an opponent so he
       was saying what he thought. He said that it was an issue that would come
       around again. He said that he was on the phone with the Lehi mayor that
       morning about this very issue in Lehi. He said that the legislature needed to
       hear from residents.

       Councilmember Roberts said that these decisions should be made at the local
       level and that the City had done a good job of trying to balance what was
       imposed on them by the legislature and the best interest of the City.

       Mayor Walker said that he got into some heated battles about the issue. He
       said that they as elected officials know what residents were feeling.

       Councilmember F. Lowry thanked the residents for coming and making public
       comments. He said that it was good for the Council to hear their examples.
       He thanked Mr. Wettstein for being an honorable homeowner who rented his
       property to a family. He said that the Council heard what the residents had to
       say.

7.20   Mr. Barker apologized to Councilmember Green for stepping on his toes. He
       explained to the Council that the staff because this was a new code, wanted to
       go over it and make sure that they were not missing anything. Staff intended
       to stress test the code internally and attack it from different perspectives to
       see if there were any last-minute holes.




                                                                        Page 32 of 36
       Mayor Walker said that Lehi was struggling with their code to the point that
       there were threats for a bill file to get opened. He said that the trajectory was
       for there to be statewide zoning. He said that residents would not like this.

       Councilmember T. Lowery said that there had been discussions about bills to
       take away single-family zoning. She said that it was something that residents
       needed to be aware of and keep an eye on.

7.21   Mayor Walker added that there was a zone in Draper where there was
       unlimited building height and unlimited density. He asked if there were any
       tall apartment buildings over there, to which the answer was no. He said that
       when they were getting beat up as a local government by the legislature, he
       went over and took a photo of the zone and pointed out that it had unlimited
       height and density, and what was built was a four-story apartment building. A
       different development could have helped solve the housing crisis. He said that
       there were lots of places in the state that the developers could build what they
       want, but then choose to build what they can make the most money on. He
       wanted it to be on the record that the City had made accommodations for
       affordable housing.

7.22   Mr. Draper said that it was important to know that if the Council passed the
       ordinance as proposed tonight it would include the map displayed on the
       screen which did not include SunCrest in the excluded areas.

       Councilmember F. Lowry verified that the map that included SunCrest would
       put just over 20% of all residential zones being restricted and that it had been
       confirmed that SunCrest could be included. Both of these things were verified.

       This item was continued.

8.0    Action Item: Resolution #21-47, a resolution of the Draper City Council
       pertaining to the adoption of a temporary policy for the procedural
       implementation of Accessory Dwelling Unit permits created by changes to Title
       9 of the Draper City Municipal Code through the passage of Draper City
       Ordinance #1499.

8.1    Ms. Jastremsky explained that this was the Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)
       Implementation Policy. The policy looked at a potential grace period for
       enforcement. The policy would give a six-month window for people to come

                                                                         Page 33 of 36
in for permits and compliance. During that time staff would work to publicize
the new rules and get people to come to submit applications for their ADU
permit. During that six-month window, staff would not do any enforcement
as far as fines, citations, etc. She said that if someone came in within that six-
month window, they would then get 12 months free from enforcement. She
said that if it was found that they have an illegal unit, the 12 months gave them
time to get the building permit and to remove the unit, or to end a current
lease with tenants so that they don’t have to evict someone who lived on the
property.

After the initial six-month application window anyone who came in would be
subject to the City’s normal enforcement policies.

Councilmember F. Lowry clarified that if an owner came in to apply and found
out that the ADU was not conforming that they would have a 12 month period
to correct the violation or vacate the premise and make it a single-family unit.
Ms. Jastremsky said that the policy provided a 12-month window that the City
would not be issuing fines for people to come into compliance.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that 12 months seemed like a long time to him.
Ms. Jastremsky said that the idea behind the 12 months was that there could
be people who had lease agreements. The City did not want to come straight
out of the gate and require people to evict tenants. She said that if an owner
did have to remove an ADU it could take a couple of weeks to hire someone to
draw up the drawings to apply for a building permit, for the building permit to
be reviewed, and for someone to do the work.

Councilmember Green said that he had not reviewed the law, but he didn’t
think that a landlord should be in a position to have to evict someone because
of a nonconforming use.

Mr. Barker said that he did not know what a court would do under those
circumstances.      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she agreed with
Councilmember F. Lowry.         The 12 months did extend the time for
nonconformity considerably. She said that six months felt like plenty of time
for a tenant to find other accommodations.




                                                                   Page 34 of 36
      Ms. Jastremsky clarified that the six-month window would be to get people to
      come in and apply. If they applied within those six months, then that provides
      them a 12 month grace period.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if that was an additional 12 months, or 18
      months total. Ms. Jastremsky said yes.

      Mr. Draper said that an owner would have 12 months to come into compliance
      from the date they submitted their application.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that potentially someone could get almost 18
      months grace period. He said that what he was trying to figure out was if an
      owner did not come in within six months to apply for the application if the City
      could immediately evict them.

      Mr. Barker said that they were not evicting anybody. He proposed that the
      Council give staff time to get a better answer for the law around evictions. He
      said that he could consult with someone who had more experience with
      landlord-tenant law than he did, which was zero experience. He said that he
      could track down a colleague who had some advice about what some of the
      implications would be if someone was illegally renting out an apartment and
      what impact that had on a tenant.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if this was an action item the Council needed
      to pass at the meeting and if they could continue the item. Mayor Walker
      confirmed that the Council was done talking about the item and that because
      there was no motion that the item would roll over to the next scheduled City
      Council meeting.

      This item was continued.

9.0   Adjournment

9.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.              Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

9.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.



                                                                       Page 35 of 36
9.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:42 p.m.




                                           Page 36 of 36
