MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING HELD
ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS,
1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:                   Board Chair Troy K. Walker, and Board members Mike Green, Tasha
                           Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:             David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Laura
                           Oscarson, City Recorder; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore,
                           Human Resource Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Russ Fox, Assistant
                           City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Christina Oliver, Director
                           of Community Development; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie,
                           Finance Director

This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-
040.  Determination 2020-05, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)

I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper
City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those
who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to
conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location. The foregoing determination is based
on the following facts:

      1. Federal, state, and local leaders, including Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all
         recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
      2. Under Governor Herbert’s COVID-19 Transmission Index, Salt Lake and Utah Counties are
         classified as “high” level meaning both counties meets “high” level criteria in at least two of the three
         following criteria: 7-day average positivity rate, 14-day case rate per 100,000 people, and
         statewide ICU utilization.
      3. It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to
         manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased
         Guidelines.
      4. COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of
         Draper City residents.
      5. The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear,
         or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
      6. The original of this written determination is on file in the City Recorder's office.



Business Meeting

1.0       Call to Order



                                                                                                                     1
Draper City Redevelopment Agency DRAFT Minutes
2.0   Motion: Approval of June 16, 2020, Redevelopment Agency of Draper City Meeting
      Minutes.

2.1   Boardmember Vawdrey moved to accept the June 16, 2020, Redevelopment Agency
      Meeting Minutes. Boardmember Green seconded the motion.

2.3   A roll call vote was taken with Boardmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      Vawdrey, and Walker voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

3.0   Action Item: Resolution #RDA 20-04, approval of the 2020 Annual Report.

3.1   Bob Wylie, Finance Director, said that this was the November 1st Report for the
      Redevelopment Agency. The report, in part, fulfills the requirement of the Utah Code
      Section 17C-1-603. The report was compiled by Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham.
      The RDA had a governing board with Mayor Walker as the chair, Mike Green as the vice-
      chair, and the remaining Councilmembers as the Boardmembers. David Dobbins, City
      Manager, was the executive director on the report. The report was submitted to the county,
      state, and other participating agencies. He highlighted page seven of the summary of the
      report: the active project areas. There were three active projects within the RDA of Draper
      City: Sand Hills, Crescent, and Front Runner project areas. The report listed the tax
      increase and budgets for each of those project areas. The South Mountain project area was
      a new project that the City believed had been triggered and was included in the report.
      They were working with the County to ensure it had been triggered for the tax year. He
      also noted the closed project areas: East Bangerter and Gateway. They were no longer
      collecting tax increments, but they did still have remaining fund balances that the City was
      allocating funds to at the time.

      For the new Councilmembers, Mr. Wylie explained how the report addresses each project
      area. He said that each area was broken up into several pages of what it was designated to
      work on with the development in the area.

      On page 12 there was a new table that indicated the developed and undeveloped acreage in
      each of the project areas. He noted that the Sand Hills project was 90% developed.

3.2   Boardmember Green moved to accept Resolution #RDA 20-04, the Annual Report.
      Boardmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

3.3   A roll call vote was taken with Boardmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      Vawdrey, and Walker voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0   Adjournment

4.1   Boardmember Lowery moved to adjourn the meeting. Boardmember Vawdrey
      seconded the motion.




                                                                                                2
Draper City Redevelopment Agency DRAFT Minutes
4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Boardmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      Vawdrey, and Walker voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

4.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:08 p.m.




                                                                               3
Draper City Redevelopment Agency DRAFT Minutes
