Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Travis Van Ekelenburg
CC:  Date: April 22, 2021
Re: 700 E Draper Medical Site Plan Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 0.48 acres located on the west side of 12200 S, at approximately 12188 S 700 E. The property is currently zoned CN . The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as a medical office building. This is currently an undeveloped property that is part of the Draperville Plat.  Additionally the applicant is applying for a deviation to Design Standards, specifically Draper City Municipal Code Section 9-22-050(A)(5). The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The entire site is being developed at one time.
2.   A site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials, with the exception of approved deviations listed in this report.
3.   The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.   The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.   The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
For denial:
1.   The Site Plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.   The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
3.   The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.   The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 4/16/2021 Cover Memo