NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a City Council Meeting on Tuesday, February 2, 2021, at 6:00 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040. WRITTEN DETERMINATION 2021-02  Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 52-4-207(4)
I, Mayor Troy Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper continue to fluctuate at high levels, both of which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system and health care providers.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with state and local health departments' health orders.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
To participate in this meeting:
Listen through the Draper City website https://www.draperutah.gov/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us . These will become part of the public record.
Those wishing to speak during the meeting, send a request for the Zoom meeting ID including your name, address, and phone number which you will be calling from to public.comment@draper.ut.us .
a 6:00 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Report: 2021 Transportation Impact Fees - Fred Philpot a 2. Presentation: Semi-annual City Deposit and Investment Report - Bob Wylie a 3. Update: Capital Improvement Projects for Parks - Rhett Ogden a 4. Discussion: Food Truck Court a 5. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM   BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Recognition: Corner Canyon High School Varsity and Junior Varsity Cheerleading Teams, 6A State Champions The Corner Canyon Cheerleaders won their 4th State Title on January 24, 2021. This makes their first back to back win. They will compete for the National Championships at the end of April.  a 3. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 4. Consent Items a. Approval of January 12, 2021, and January 19, 2021, City Council Meeting Minutes 5. Public Hearing: Ordinances #1477 and 1478, City Initiated Windsor Mill Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment (Legislative Action) On the request of Draper City for a Zoning Map Amendment from RA2 to RM1 and a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium/High Density on 0.302 acres of land located generally at 11450 South 820 West. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky. a 6. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1475, City Initiated Chickens for Familial Gain Text Amendment (Legislative Action) On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to amend Sections 9-3-040, 9-9-080, 9-10-090, and 9-27-055 of Draper City Municipal Code. This application is known as the City Initiated Chickens for Familial Gain Text Amendment. Staff report by Todd Draper. a 7. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1474, City Initiated Land Use Buffer Text Amendment (Legislative Action) On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to amend Sections 9-23-110 and 9-3-040 of Draper City Municipal Code. This application is known as the City Initiated Land Use Buffer Text Amendment. Staff report by Todd Draper.
a 8. Action Item: Ordinance #1476, adopting a Temporary Land Use Regulation permitting Temporary Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinics (Legislative Action) A request by Draper City for a temporary land use regulation permitting the use of temporary Mobile COVID-19 Medical Service Clinics. This application is city wide and not associated with a single site. Staff report by Todd Draper. a 9. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held February 2, 2021 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: January 29, 2021 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.