MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19,
2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha
                    Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott
                    Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource
                    Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City
                    Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Laura Oscarson, City
                    Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications Director;           Bart
                    Vawdrey, Battalion Chief; and Bob Wylie, Finance Director; Kellie
                    Challburg, Chief of Staff; Jake Sorensen, Network Administer; Jen
                    Jastremsky, Planning Manager
Study Session

1.0   Council/Manager Reports

1.1   Councilmember Green said he wanted to see if a path could be constructed
      on the north side of Traverse Mountain Road. Councilmember Green also
      asked if a crosswalk would be installed when 1300 East is reconstructed. He
      noted that this had been a suggestion from a resident.

1.2   Councilmember T. Lowery relayed resident concerns about young kids in golf
      carts on the streets as well as the trail system in the Bellevue area. She said
      this was not only a safety concern, but it was also destroying the trails. Mr.
      Dobbins asked Councilmember T. Lowery if she wanted staff to actively
      enforce on all scooters and golf carts on city trails and sidewalks.
      Councilmember T. Lowery said per the residents’ complaints, the kids were
      driving these vehicles around recklessly. She suggested sending out notices
      to neighborhood HOA boards.

1.3   Councilmember Roberts stated the Traverse Ridge Special Service District
      (TRSSD) had a significant shortfall for its snowplow costs. Mr. Dobbins added
      that staff would be presenting an agreement between the City and the TRSSD
      regarding snow plows and other issues, including street light replacement.




Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – October 19, 2021
1.4      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if Mr. Dobbins had had a chance to review the
         budget for beautification projects. Mr. Dobbins said staff had met to
         determine a couple of projects, but they were still working on budgetary
         details.

1.5      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the City was interested in doing a Christmas
         Village or Santa Parade this year. Mr. Dobbins said based on the City’s current
         resources, he was not sure how they would be able to do more. There was a
         brief discussion on potential options.


Business Session

1.0      Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0      Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1      Steve McInroy, from the Rock Church, offered the invocation. The pledge of
         allegiance was led by Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager.

3.0      Public Comments

3.1      Bryon Prince, representing Ivory Homes, expressed concerns regarding a
         situation taking place between two subdivisions: Big Willow Creek and Jensen
         Farms. He provided a historical area of these subdivisions, of which, Ivory
         Homes developed one of them. Both projects were required to complete a
         road connection during the first phase of construction. However, the other
         development company has not held up its end of the agreement, and Ivory
         Homes has been waiting for this road construction to take place for over two
         years. He wanted to elevate this conversation to make it a priority, as it puts
         the residents of the Ivory Homes development in jeopardy.

4.0      Consent Items
      a. Approval of Resolution #21-54, a resolution changing the terms of the
         members of the Draper City Historic Preservation Commission.
      b. Approval of Ordinance #1504, an ordinance amending Title 12 of the Draper
         City Municipal Code that aligns the city code with the National Flood Insurance
         Program, operated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
         requirements that identify the current flood insurance rate maps.




Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – October 19, 2021
4.1   Councilmember Green moved to approve the Consent Items. Councilmember
      T. Lowery seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1503, on the request of Adam Lankford,
      representing Wasatch Residential Group for a Text Amendment to add
      Medical Services as a permitted use in the CSD-DD (Day Dairy Commercial
      Special District) zone. This application is known as the Day Dairy Medical Use
      Text Amendment. The zone is located at approximately 527 East 12300 South.

5.1   Jennifer Jastremsky presented the staff report as well as an aerial map of the
      subject area. She clarified that this request only applied to the CSD-DD and
      no other zones within the City. She noted that the CSD was also located within
      the City’s special land use designation. The applicant was proposing to expand
      the number of uses allowed within the commercial portion of the
      development and add medical service as a permitted use.

5.2   Adam Lankford provided an overview of the item. He clarified that the use
      would be for medical retail and not doctors’ offices.

5.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

5.4   Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinance #1503. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

5.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Adjournment

6.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.            Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

6.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.




Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – October 19, 2021
6.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:12 p.m.




Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – October 19, 2021
