             Questions for the TRSSD applicants


1. Please describe a time where you have worked cooperatively in
   an adversarial environment and obtained a mutually beneficial
   agreement for both parties.
      a. Working in sales and contract negotiation my whole life
         basically, has put me in several situations where I have to
         work cooperatively in an adversarial environment. I was
         working in pipeline right-of-way, and have dealt with
         many land owners that didn’t want to allow a pipeline on
         their land or in a certain corridor, but with my
         negotiations background I was able to have both parties
         come to the table and make concessions so both could
         accomplish their goals.

2. How has your prior experience, work or education prepared
   you to serve on the TRSSD? - could be accounting knowledge,
   leadership training, or experience with engineering or
   infrastructure.
      a. I have an extensive background in title work, solar energy,
         Oil, gas, water, pipeline right-of-way, negotiations, sales,
         management, and customer service/relations. I have also
         owned several of my own corporations and have kept all
         accounting records for them all.

3. Why do you want to be involved on the TRSSD, and what do
   you hope to accomplish?
     a. I hope to accomplish making a positive impact on my
        home. I want to get more involved in my community and
        with my background I feel TRSSD would be the perfect fit
        for me to make that impact felt in my own backyard!

4. What do you see as the best practices on how to build and
   maintain transparency within the board to the members of the
   District and the City?
      a. I see clear and precise communication as the key to
         transparency within the board and to its members. The
         best practices are if all parties involved have open lines of
         communication and clear expectations of what needs to
         be accomplished. I’d prefer to over inform in most cases if
         needed versus under informing.
