                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, Utah 84020



                                          STAFF REPORT
                                         September 28, 2021

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: October 14, 2021

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By:         Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                     Planning Division
                     Community Development Department
                     (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Jewelry Everyday — Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-119-2021
        Applicants:       Jeremiah and Natalie Brown
        Project Location: Approximately 12835 S. Browns Pond Cove
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum)
        Acreage:          Approximately 3.82 acres (approximately 166,399 square feet)
        Request:          Approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in the
                          RA2 zone a jewelry making business in the home.



SUMMARY and BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
application for approximately 3.82 acres located on the east side of Browns Pond Cove
(Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting approval to
operate a jewelry making business in the home. The applicant is requesting deviations to
the standards outlined in Section 9-34-040 of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC).
Section 9-34-060 allows the Planning Commission to consider the requested use and make
deviations to the standards.




Jewelry Everyday Home Occupation                                   App. # USE-119-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   1
The home was originally built in 1974 and is Lot 11 of the Brown Pond Phase II of the
residential subdivision.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
two dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit D). According to DCMC Section 9-8-020 the purpose of
the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings
and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas;
and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the
keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is
intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The RA2 zoning designation surrounds the subject
property on all sides.


Jewelry Everyday Home Occupation                                     App. # USE-119-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                2
Proposed Use. The applicant will utilize some of the garage, a guest room and enclosed
porch area for the crafting of custom jewelry and keychains (approximately 500 square feet
for the work area and inventory and storage). All of the products made are sold online and
there are no customers coming to the home. In addition to the two applicants who live in
the home, a relative and a friend also work for the business, who will parking in the
driveway of the home. There will not be a specific vehicle for the business and the
applicants will use their personal vehicles to drop off the packages for shipping. The hours
for the business will be 8:30 am to 3:30 pm, Monday through Friday. Additionally, no signs
for the business name or advertising are approve or allowed with this application for the
home or the vehicle.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

A.      Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
        resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
        the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

        For this business, the homeowners are the business owners and will have two
        employee who come to the home to work.

B.      Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
        from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to Title 6, Chapter 11 of this
        code.

        The applicant will comply.

C.      Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
        employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
        limited to one person.

        There will be no a total of four employees for the business. Two of the employees
        are the homeowners and the other two employees do not live in the home and will
        come to the home for work.

D.      Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
        other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
        city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

        The applicant will comply with this requirement.



Jewelry Everyday Home Occupation                                         App. # USE-119-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  3
E.      Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
        hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is
        allowed.

        The applicant will utilize some of the garage, a guest room and enclosed porch area
        for the crafting custom jewelry and keychains. The entire business will be
        approximately 500 square feet in size with approximately 250 being for the work
        area and the other 250 for the inventory and storage area. There will be no outside
        storage of any materials.

F.      Modification of Structures or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
        exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
        dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
        benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered
        to provide parking required for a home occupation.

        There will be no alterations with this home business and no visible evidence that
        there is a business in the home.

G.      Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
        is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
        magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

        This business is a custom jewelry and keychain making business and will not emit
        any of the above mentioned items and will not create a nuisance.

H.      Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
        the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall
        not disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the
        residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit
        shall be used for the home occupation.

        This business will always be a secondary use to the home as a single family dwelling.
        The business will occupy approximately 500 square feet of the home, or 16.7% of
        the homes 2,987 square feet.

I.      Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with Chapter 26, “Signs”, of this
        title.

        There is no signage proposed with this application. Any signage proposed in the
        future would have to comply with DCMC 9-26.




Jewelry Everyday Home Occupation                                       App. # USE-119-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 4
J.      Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
        parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
        which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
        adequate provision for drop off traffic.

        No customers will be coming to the home, and the applicant does not have any
        business vehicles. With the two employees, there will be a minimal increase of
        traffic, but no more than what is customary in a single family residential
        neighborhood.

K.      Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
        vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
        would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
        shall be allowed on vehicles.

        The applicant parks their personal vehicle at the home, and they will only use their
        personal vehicle for business use.

L.      Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
        any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

        All of the applicant’s business activity will be conducted in the home. There will be
        no business activity in the yard.

M.      Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
        preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

        The applicant will have no customers coming to the home.

N.      Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
        excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

        The utility demand for the proposed business will be in alignment with utility use for
        a normal residential use.

O.      Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
        within the primary structure on the property.

        All business activity will reside inside the primary structure on the property.

P.      Single-Family and Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
        or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-
        family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and Section 9-34-


Jewelry Everyday Home Occupation                                        App. # USE-119-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  5
        060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an
        approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management
        company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees,
        customers or business vehicles.

        This is a single family dwelling, and will comply with DCMC Section 9-34-060.

Q.      Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
        state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
        not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
        Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential
        certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section
        R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are
        regulated and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
        home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

        This is a custom jewelry and keychain making business and does not involve any
        food production or child care.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

E.      Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of
        a conditional use permit:
        1.     A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
               where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
               zone.
        2.     Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
               mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
               These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
               character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and
               other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
               conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
               conditional use permit.
        3.     If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
               use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
               conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional
               use may be denied.
        4.     The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
               whether a conditional use permit application should be approved, approved



Jewelry Everyday Home Occupation                                      App. # USE-119-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                6
                 with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be
                 imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                 a.     The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                        and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
                 b.     The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                 c.     Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                        existing development in the vicinity;
                 d.     The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                        surrounding area;
                 e.     The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                        surrounding area;
                 f.     The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                        transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                        screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
                        and vehicular circulation;
                 g.     The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                        emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                        proposed facility or use; and
                 h.     The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                        welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property
                        in the area.
        5.       The Planning Commission may request additional information as may be
                 reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
                 subsection E can be met.

In addition, Section 9-34-060 allows the Planning Commission to allow deviations from the
standards listed above. The sections reads as follows:

        “A home occupation listed in Section 9-34-030 or 9-34-050 of this chapter that does
        not conform to any of the development standards in Section 9-34-040 of this
        chapter may nonetheless be established through the issuance of a conditional use
        permit specifically for the desired alteration to those development standards.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Jewelry Everyday Home Occupation                                      App. # USE-119-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 7
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions has completed their review of the home occupation conditional use permit
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

1.       All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
         License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation
         on the property.
2.       The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from
         any and all necessary agencies.
3.       The business is limited to two employees who do not reside in the home. All
         employees shall park on the driveway.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
         anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
         alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.




Jewelry Everyday Home Occupation                                      App. # USE-119-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 8
MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation conditional
use permit, as requested by Jeremiah and Natalie Brown, application USE-119-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated October 5,
2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation
conditional use permit, as requested by Jeremiah and Natalie Brown, application USE-119-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated
October 5, 2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1.      List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the home occupation conditional use
permit, as requested by Jeremiah and Natalie Brown, application USE-119-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated October 5, 2021.




Jewelry Everyday Home Occupation                                      App. # USE-119-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                9
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                  Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield


 Brien Maxfield
                  DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -                                  Digitally signed by Matthew T. Symes
                  Engineering,                                                                   DN: C=US, E=Matt.symes@draper.ut.us,
                  email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                  Date: 2021.09.28 09:15:50 -06'00'
                                                                         Matthew T. Symes        O=Draper City, CN=Matthew T. Symes
                                                                                                 Date: 2021.09.28 16:55:42-06'00'



Draper City Public Works Division                                        Draper City Building Division


                        Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                         Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                        DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper                          DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,


Don Buckley             City Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don
                        Buckley
                                                                         Jennifer Jastremsky    O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City, CN=Jennifer
                                                                                                Jastremsky
                                                                                                Date: 2021.09.28 10:06:39-06'00'
                        Date: 2021.09.28 09:41:18-06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                              Draper City Planning Division



                                                                         Mike Barker      Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                                          Date: 2021.09.29 09:45:59 -06'00'


                                                                         Draper City Legal Counsel
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
     EXHIBIT F
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
           Questions and Answers for Home Occupational Conditional Use Permit

1. What is the present use of the property (Manufacturing, Agricultural, Residential,
   Commercial)?

- Residential

2. What is the proposed use? Be specific as to use, hours of operation, number of
   employees, etc.

-A home based online business making custom jewelry and keychains to sell online on
Etsy.com. In addition to my wife and I and my sister, a single family-friend part time
employee coming in to assemble keychains and fulfill orders from the hours of 8:30 am and
leaving at 3:30 pm.

3. Please discuss how the proposed use will “fit-in” with surrounding uses.

-As there will be no customers serviced at our home, it will be completely unidentifiable that
there is even a business being run in our home. There are many other home-based businesses
fulfilling online orders all the time in our community as one can observe by the number of
packages in large bundles being brought in to the Draper post office each day. There are also
several other types of home-based business in the neighborhood such as a grooming place,
garden market stand, martial arts, drum and backline and others which play a much more
visible role in the neighborhood as compared to ours.

4. What type of service will it provide to the City of Draper?

-No specific service directed to Draper City, as it’s an online business which will service
most of the world, but Draper residents could also benefit from purchasing keychains and
jewelry online from our Etsy shop.

5. Is the proposed use consistent with the current zoning & land use designation? Please
   explain.

-Yes. It would comply with all of the requirements for a home-based business that should not
disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood.

6. Is the proposed use similar or compatible to other uses in the same area? Please explain.

-Yes, as mentioned above, there are many other home-based businesses within 400 feet of
our property and they consist of much more highly visible business operations than our own.
Nothing visibly would indicate we have a home-based business, but you can visibly see
many of the others.

7. Is the proposed use suitable for the proposed site? Please explain.
-Yes, in addition to a bit of garage space, we have two areas in our home not in use, a guest
bedroom, and an enclosed porch area with a separate entrance where an employee can easily
enter without needing to present themselves at our front door. We have a large property
surrounded by trees and a large pond, and not many nearby neighbors (the only near neighbor
being my relative). It would be very difficult for any neighbor to even notice that we have an
employee coming to the home because of the seclusion of our property.

8. Will the proposed use emit noise, glare, dust, pollutants, & odor? Please explain.

-No.

9. What will be the hours of operation & how many people will be employed? Please
   specify if any employees will not be residents of the home.

-As mentioned above, in addition to my wife and I and my sister, a single unrelated part time
employee coming in to assemble keychains and fulfill orders from the hours of 8:30 am and
leaving at 3:30 pm.

10. If applicable, how many clients will come to the home daily?

-As it will be only online orders with no physical storefront no in person clients will be
regularly coming to the home.
