Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: July 8, 2021
Re: City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #1 Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment that includes multiple changes to Titles 9 and 17 of the DCMC including changes to definitions, permitted use reviews, conditional use permits, site plan reviews, landscaping, addressing, appeals, land use buffers, parking, lot and yard requirements, swimming pools, development standards, and other typographical and de minimis corrections.
Changes to ordinances governing home occupations were initially noticed as part of this bulk Text Amendment request but have since been removed from consideration. The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.  The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.  The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.  The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For a negative recommendation :
1.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.  The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.  The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6.  The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 7/1/2021 Cover Memo