                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 August 27, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: September 9, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:     Draper Flower Cart – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-0123-2021
        Applicant:        Tama Pickford
        Project Location: 1593 E Timoney Rd
        Current Zoning: RM – (Residential, Multiple Unit Dwelling) Zone
        Acreage:          0.34 Acres (Approximately 14,810 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RM (Multi-family Residential) zone regarding a
                          Home Occupation business as a Florist.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.34 acres located on the north side of Timoney Road, at approximately
1593 E Timoney Road (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RM. The applicant is
requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a
home business as a Florist, which is classified as a Cottage Business.

The home is part of the South Mountain Subdivision Phase 3C Subdivision and the home
was built in 2007. As it is part of the South Mountain area, the property and zoning is
subject to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (1999 DCMC).



ANALYSIS




Draper Flower Cart                                                 App. # USE-0123-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          1
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RM zoning classification, (Exhibit D). According to 1999
DCMC Section 9-4-030 the purpose of the RM zone is to “provide areas for low-to-medium
residential density’ with the opportunity for varied housing styles and character, providing for a
maximum density of up to twelve (12) units per acre for medium to high density residential unit
projects subject to conditional-use permit procedures and conditions for this type of use and
based on minimum development guidelines adopted by the City.” The property is surrounded
by the RM zone to the east and south; OS (Open Space) to the north and west.

Home Occupation. The applicant will be doing preparation and selling of floral
arrangements out of her home. The applicant will be the only employee and will be
delivering the floral arrangements in her personal vehicle. There will be no alterations to
the property for this business. The applicant will be utilizing part of the existing second




Draper Flower Cart                                                      App. # USE-0123-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
kitchen in the home and a storage area for the business.

    1999 DCMC Section 9-4-140               Home Occupations.

         (a) Notwithstanding other sections of this Title, a home occupation shall be
     considered a permitted use in any residential, multiple family and agriculture zone if
     the proposed use meets all of the following conditions:


    1. The home occupation is a home office, beauty salon, pre-school or day care
       business, as regulated by the State of Utah.

        The Home Occupation as a Florist will be processed as a Conditional Use Permit.

    2. The business is owned and operated by the resident of the home.

        The applicant will be the only employee and is the home and business owner.

    3. No employees, other than residents of the home, utilize the facility.

        There will be no employees but the applicant.

    4. For beauty salon, pre-school or day care business, the hours of operation do not
       begin before 7 a.m. or extend beyond 8 p.m.

        Not applicable as this is a business as a Florist.

    5. A business license is obtained from, and continually maintained with the City.

        The applicant will comply with this section requirement.

    6. All facilities are inspected by the Fire Department prior to initial use and meet Fire
       Department standards at all times.

        The applicant will comply with any and all inspections.

    7. All drop-off or customer parking is accommodated on paved portions of the
       property.

        There are no customers coming to the home as the applicant will be utilizing their
        personal vehicle for product delivery.




Draper Flower Cart                                                    App. # USE-0123-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request       3
 Information regarding the proposed use will be provided to the Neighborhood Association
 for the area in which the proposed use is to be located. The Neighborhood Association will
 have fourteen (14) days from the date of mailing to respond to the Zoning Administrator
 with comments regarding the proposed use. The Zoning Administrator will then review the
 response and determine if the proposed use is to be permitted, permitted with additional
 conditions, or will require a Conditional Use Permit.

        The City does not have Neighborhood Associations anymore. The City used to have
        neighborhood organizations that worked like recommending neighborhood councils
        to the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, and City Council.

         (b) Any home occupation which does not meet the provisions outlined above shall
      be processed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Section 9-2-104 of this Title.


        The applicant has applied for a conditional use permit.

The single family home on the property is approximately 4560 ft² and will be utilizing 82 ft²
for the home which equals approximately 2% of the home square footage. The business
will be using 6 ft² for storage for the business, and the other 76 ft² utilized for the business
will be the area used for creating the arrangements.

Criteria For Approval.
The 1999 DCMC Section 9-2-104(I) outlines the standards to which the Planning
Commission should consider to determine whether a conditional use permit application
should be approved, denied, or approved with conditions:

        (1) Factors. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered
            by the Planning Commission in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, denied,
            or approved with conditions.

    1. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the
       objectives and requirements of the City General Plan and Zoning
       Ordinances.

    2. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use.

    3. The development or lack of development adjacent to the proposed
       site and the harmony of the proposed use with the existing uses in
       the neighborhood.



Draper Flower Cart                                                      App. # USE-0123-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
    4. Whether or not the proposed use or facility may be injurious to
       potential or existing development within the vicinity.
    5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area.

    6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area.

    7. Whether or not the proposed use or facility is necessary or desirable to the City.

    8. The number of other similar conditional uses in the area and the public need for
       the proposed conditional use.

    9. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and
       other utilities, for the proposed site and surrounding area.

    10. The safeguards proposed or provided to insure adequate utilities, transportation
        access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space,
        fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation.

    11. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive omissions
        such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use.

    12. The safeguards provided or proposed to minimize other adverse effects from the
        proposed facility or use on persons or property in the area.

    13. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
        City, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.

    14. The appropriateness and compatibility of the proposed use with the use tables set
        forth in this Title for the zone in which the property is located.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Draper Flower Cart                                                      App. # USE-0123-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
       License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation
       on the property.
    2. The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from
       any and all necessary agencies.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects

The findings for denial as are follows:
   1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
       alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.




MODEL MOTIONS




Draper Flower Cart                                                  App. # USE-0123-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Tama Pickford, application USE-0123-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 27, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Tama Pickford, application USE-0123-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 27,
2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Tama Pickford, application USE-0123-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 27, 2021.




Draper Flower Cart                                                 App. # USE-0123-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
 EXHIBIT E
FLOOR PLAN
