Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: January 14, 2021
Re: LOT 27 OAK VISTA NO. 1 AT SUNCREST—PLAT AMENDMENT REQUEST Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Plat Amendment for approximately 0.47 acres located at 14812 S Oak Bluff Place.  The property is currently zoned RM, as established through the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (1999 DCMC) and the Suncrest Master Development Agreement. The applicant is requesting that a Plat Amendment and deviation from 1999 DCMC Section 9-15-040(a) be approved to allow the placement of a new single-family dwelling outside the approved buildable area by moving the limit of disturbance and allowing construction within a portion of the slope that is steeper than 30%. The findings are as follows: Deviation to 1999 DCMC Section 9-15-040:
For approval:
1.  No significant harm will result .
2.  The proposed modification will result in a more functional and improved plan .
3.  The developer/builder agrees to comply with any conditions or requirements imposed by the Planning Commission to mitigate any adverse effects which may result from the proposed modification.
4.  The deviation is based upon site-specific circumstances and constraints unique to the lot.
5.  The deviation constitutes an appropriate balancing of health, safety, aesthetic and general welfare objectives and the specific facts and conditions justify the deviation.
For denial:
1.  Significant harm will result .
2.  The proposed modification will not result in a more functional and improved plan .
3.  The developer/builder has not agreed to comply with any conditions or requirements imposed by the Planning Commission to mitigate any adverse effects which may result from the proposed modification.
4.  The deviation is not based upon site-specific circumstances and constraints unique to the lot.
5.  The deviation does not constitute an appropriate balance of health, safety, aesthetic and general welfare objectives and the specific facts and conditions do not justify the deviation.
Plat Amendment:
For approval:
1. There is good cause for the amendment and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.
For denial:
1.  There is not good cause for the amendment. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Part 1- PC Staff Report 1/11/2021 Cover Memo Part 2- PC Staff Report 1/11/2021 Cover Memo