                                  ORDINANCE NO. 1506

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
        AND DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 9) OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
        BY ADOPTING A NEW CSD ZONE CALLED CROSSPOINT COMMERCIAL
        SPECIAL DISTRICT (CSD-CP), OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE CROSSPOINT CSD
        ZONING TEXT AND ZONING MAP AMENDMENT.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by zoning districts; and

       WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness,
applicability, or clarity; and

       WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code
has been established to provide regulations concerning general developments within the
City Boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development
Code to guide development within the City Boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use
and Development Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1.    Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings that the proposed text amendment regarding the Land Use and Development
Code in regards to the Crosspoint CSD Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment:
        1.     The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
the city's general plan.
        2.     The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
zoning ordinance.
        3.     The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.



Ordinance No. 1506                           1                                   Crosspoint CSD
                                                                               Text Amendment
       4.        The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
part of this title or the general plan.
       5.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
overall community benefit.
       6.        The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

       Section 2.   Revision. Chapter 9-18L of the Land Use and Development Code of
the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

        Section 3.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 4.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
___________DAY OF___________, 2021.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder




Ordinance No. 1506                             2                                     Crosspoint CSD
                                                                                   Text Amendment
 VOTE TAKEN:                   YES   NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1506         3                Crosspoint CSD
                                          Text Amendment
                                       9-18
                ARTICLE M. CROSSPOINT COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT

9-18M-010     PURPOSE
9-18M-020     USES
9-18M-030     DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
9-18M-040     LANDSCAPE STANDARDS
9-18M-050     PARKING DESIGN
9-18M-060     LIGHTING STANDARDS
9-18M-070     SIGNAGE
9-18M-080     RETAINING WALLS
9-18M-090     THROUGH ACCESS FOR RESIDENTS OF SEASONS AT SOUTHPOINT
              APARTMENTS
9-18M-100     PROCEDURES
9-18M-110     APPLICATION OF CITY’S VESTED LAWS
9-18M-120     EXHIBITS

9-18M-010: PURPOSE

The Crosspoint Commercial Special District (hereafter “CSD”) contains approximately 17
acres that is bordered by Highland Drive on the north, Traverse Ridge Drive on the
northeast and 65 East on the west. The size of the property allows for a master planned
office and commercial project. The Draper City general plan goals and objectives are
reflected in the overall CSD elements for the following land uses, architectural standards
signage, site design, and landscape standards. The commercial special district aims to
broaden the commercial tax base of the city.

9-18M-020: PERMITTED USES

Bank or financial institution
Business service
Convenience store
Daycare, general
Gasoline service station
Government service
Higher education facility, private
Higher education facility, public
Hotel
Hospital
Laundry or dry cleaning, limited
Laundry services
Media services
Medical cannabis facility
Medical service
Municipal use
Office, general
Preschool, general
Printing and photocopying, limited
Personal care service
Recreation and entertainment, indoor
Restaurant, fast food (including drive thru)
Restaurant, general
Retail, general

9-18M-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

The development standards of the CSD will guide the design of the buildings, landscaping,
parking and signage located within the district boundaries. The site plan provides for
office, medical services (hereafter, “medical”), retail and general commercial development
in designated areas in accordance with the development standards set forth in this article.

All buildings within the CSD shall comply with the following respective development
standards:

A.     Office, Hospital, and Medical:

       1.     Standards:

              (a)    Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite
                     metal panel, glass, stone, EIFS, brick, architectural concrete, GFRC, or
                     tile.

              (b)    More than two (2) primary materials shall be required on all building
                     facades.

              (c)    Buildings shall have a minimum of forty percent (40%) glass with the
                     remaining 60% in two (2) or more other primary materials.

              (d)    Buildings shall be two (2), three (3) or four (4) stories. Two-story (2)
                     buildings shall not exceed thirty (30) feet in height, three-story (3)
                     buildings shall not exceed forty-five (45) feet in height, and four-story
                     (4) buildings shall not exceed sixty (60) feet in height. The two (2) or
                     three (3) story building shall be next to the corner retail uses.

              (e)    All mechanical equipment, wherever located, shall be screened from
                     view either by an enclosure or parapet wall. Not exceeding the height
                      of the equipment. The maximum height of any screen wall shall be
                      ten (10’) feet.

               (f)    Dumpsters shall be located in a six (6’) foot high masonry enclosure
                      providing visual screening of the receptacle. Enclosures shall be
                      constructed with one (1) or more materials compatible with the main
                      building on the lot or parcel for which it is servicing.

               (g)    The minimum setback from the Highland Drive property line for four-
                      story (4) buildings shall be twenty (20) feet and ten (10) feet for two (2)
                      or three-story (3) buildings and for corner retail.

     2.        Office Amenities: The office uses shall encourage interaction with the
               outdoor environment by providing the following:

               (a)    Conversation or gathering areas with seating shall be constructed
                      proximate to office buildings within green space or on patios.

               (b)    The CSD plan shall provide connectivity between office and medical
                      locations and within the retail areas with sidewalks and roadways.
                      Cross access agreements shall be required where there is separate
                      ownership of lots within the CSD.

B.   Retail:

     1.        Single-story retail buildings shall not exceed twenty-two (22’) feet in height.
               All screening for rooftop mounted mechanical equipment shall be no more
               than ten feet (10’) taller than the building.

     2.        Building primary materials shall consist of glass, granite, metal, composite
               metal panel, stone, EIFS, brick, architectural concrete, GFRC or tile.

     3         At least two (2) primary materials shall be required on all building facades.

     4.        A multi-tenant building shall utilize a consistent palette of primary materials
               for the entire building. Stand-alone buildings may use primary materials and
               architecture pertaining to the business or corporate identity of such tenant.

     5.        All mechanical equipment, wherever located, shall be screened from view at
               ground level either by an enclosure or parapet wall not exceeding the height
               of the equipment. The maximum height of any screen wall shall be ten (10’)
               feet.
     6.     Dumpsters shall be located in a six (6’) foot high masonry enclosure
            providing visual screening of the receptacle. Enclosures shall be constructed
            with one or more materials compatible with the main building on the lot or
            parcel for which it is servicing.

     7.     The minimum setbacks of buildings along Highland Drive and Traverse Ridge
            Road shall be no less than ten (10’) feet from the property line.

9-18M-040: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS

A.   Landscape Standards: A consistent palette of low water-use plants, tree types, plant
     materials, hardscape, retaining and ground covers will be incorporated throughout
     in relation to the architecture to create a strong and consistent sense of place and
     identity. The tree, plant palette and hardscape will be submitted in conjunction with
     specific site plan approval application. The landscape design shall comply with the
     following standards:

     1.     The landscape plan shall promote water conservation by the use of water
            wise landscaping principles and techniques.

     2.     Trees shall be a combination of deciduous and non-deciduous trees
            including shade and ornamental trees with a minimum initial caliper size of
            two (2”) inches and a minimum height of six feet (6’).

     3.     Hardscape shall be used on slopes and other locations in the landscape
            design and shall be combined with intermittent grasses and plantings to
            accent and complement green softscape areas and to reduce water use.
            Hardscape materials may consist of gravels, stone, rocks, pavers and
            concrete borders and patio areas in combination with trees, grass and
            plantings.

     4.     The minimum landscape percentage for office, medical and retail uses shall
            be twenty percent (20%) inclusive of all phases of CSD. A project or phase
            having more than the minimum percentage may have its excess percentage
            credited to the remaining projects or phases. A development project or
            phase having less than the minimum percentage is acceptable so long as the
            remaining project or projects execute a binding agreement that includes a
            plan showing where any deficiency will be made up, and which shall be
            included in a binding agreement as a condition of approval.

     5.     The landscape plan shall be designed by a professional landscape architect.
B.     Buffering: A buffering separation shall be required between the zone for office and
       medical uses and all residential zones located to the south of the CSD. The buffer
       shall consist of the following:

       1.     A six foot (6’) high wall shall be constructed along the southern property line
              of the CSD adjacent to residentially zoned properties. The wall shall be
              constructed of masonry, precast concrete, lightweight precast fiber
              reinforced concrete.

       2.     All landscape buffer areas shall be landscaped with one (1) tree per four
              hundred (400) square feet of buffer area.

       3.     All landscape buffers between the CSD and adjacent residentially zoned
              property shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20’).

       4.     The buffer required for each office or medical building shall be completed by
              the date of the Certificate of Occupancy for that building and its parking area.

C.     All other elements of the landscape plan not described or defined above for
       materials, location and installation, shall comply with Chapter 9-23 of the DCMC.

9-18M-050: PARKING DESIGN

The CSD will be configured to include landscaping of parking areas and shall be designed in
accordance with the following standards:
A.    Parking for office and medical use buildings shall be a minimum of four (4) stalls and
      a maximum of seven (7) stalls per one thousand (1,000) square feet of usable
      square footage. Usable square footage shall mean the amount of space for
      occupancy excluding electrical and mechanical areas that are not convertible to
      occupancy areas.
B.    Parking for Restaurant: Fast Food and Restaurant: General uses shall be the
      following:

       1.     Restaurant: Fast Food: Ten (10) spaces per one-thousand (1,000) square feet
              of gross building area.

       2.     Restaurant: General: Eight (8) spaces per one-thousand (1,000) square feet of
              gross building area.

       3.     General Retail: Two and one-half (2.5) spaces per one-thousand (1,000)
              square feet gross building area.
C.    Parking stalls shall be eighteen feet (18') in length and a minimum of nine feet (9') in
      width.

D.    Queuing lanes for all drive-thru uses shall comply with City code 9-25-060(D).

E.    Landscape islands shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') in width and a length as long
      as the length of either single or end to end parking spaces as applicable. The
      islands shall be placed at the end of each parking row.

9-18M-060: LIGHTING STANDARDS

A.    Parking lot lighting in the CSD shall be illuminated according to the following
      standards:

      1.     The maximum average illumination shall be three (3) foot candles in general
             parking lot locations including office and medical. The illumination after
             hours shall be limited to two (2) foot candles.

      2.     Light fixtures installed along the perimeter of the project shared by property
             that is residentially zoned shall:

             (a)     Not exceed fifteen feet (15’) in height along the shared boundary, and

             (b)     Utilize cutoff fixtures or house-side shields or lights limiting the
                     illumination to 0.2 foot candles along the property line.

B.    Parking lot lighting for office uses and retail uses shall not be taller than twenty feet
      (20’) and shall not be closer than within 20 feet of a property line zoned for
      residential use.

C.    Round black poles and fixtures shown in Exhibit D shall be uniform throughout the
      Crosspoint CSD.

D.    Lighting shall be designed for energy conservation.

E.    Other lighting not addressed in this CSD must comply with Chapter 9-20 of the
      Draper City Municipal Code.

9-18M-070: SIGNAGE

Signage design and location will be an important component of the CSD.
A.   Office Uses.

     1.     One (1) monument shall be allowed at the corner of 65 East and Highland
            Drive to identify the project name: Crosspoint Office Park.

B.   Signage for Office and Medical Buildings:

     1.     One (1) monument sign shall be allowed per non-medical office building
            identifying the address of each office building and its tenants.

     2.     The medical building next to retail may have one (1) monument sign. The
            medical building may also include an elevated informational sign showing
            where the emergency access is located. The medical office elevated sign
            shall not block the visibility to see traffic on Highland Drive. It may be located
            near Highland Drive on the condition that it is elevated sufficient to have a
            clear view of traffic below the sign. The sign shall be elevated up to ten feet
            (10’) above ground level. It shall not exceed two feet (2.5’) in height by ten
            feet (10’) in length. The sign shall be mounted on a tubular support that shall
            not exceed six inches (6”) in diameter.

     3.     Each office building and medical building may have building signage on each
            of the three (3) facades that are parallel and perpendicular to Highland Drive.
            Such signs may have individually illuminated letters and may include an
            illuminated corporate logo. Office and medical buildings signage including
            logos shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet in size maximum per
            building façade. Tenant leases shall govern the right to any signage. Signage
            on the general office buildings shall reduce the illumination of signs at 10:00
            PM each evening to twenty-five percent (25%) of the maximum allowable.

     4.     Informational signs will be allowed in the project which shall not to exceed
            three feet (3’) in height and four (4) square feet of sign area.

C.   Signage for retail buildings:

     1.     The letters may be individually mounted or mounted on a mounting board or
            raceway to enable minimal penetrations of building surfaces and
            concealment of wiring for illumination of letters.

     2.     Signage may include corporate logos.

     3.     The combined total of all wall signs shall not exceed a maximum ratio of two
            (2) square feet of sign for each linear foot of building face length or the face
            length of the tenant’s space of a multi-tenant building.
     4.     Tower or Pylon Signs shall comply with these standards:

            (a)    One (1) shall be permitted in the retail component.

            (b)    The maximum height shall be twenty (20) feet.

            (c)    The maximum area shall be seventy five (75) square feet.

D.   The following types of signs are prohibited:

     1.     Flat faced box or cabinet signs.

     2.     Painted signs.

     3.     Neon signs.

E.   Locations of signs shall be outside of public rights of way and, as outlined below, are
     intended to be in the approximate locations:

     1.     All signs shall be located outside of public utility easements.

     2.     All signs shall be located outside of the clear view area defined in Section 9-
            26-030.

     3.     Locations on Highland Drive must meet adequate sight distance
            requirements.
                                                                                                               Conceptual Examples of Office Monument Signage:




                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"   Conceptual
                                                                                                                 1' - 6" Example
                                                                                                                              1' - 0" of Retail
                                                                                                                                           6' - 0"   1' - 0" or Pylon Signage:
                                                                                                                                                   Tower
                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"       1' - 6"          1' - 0"        6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Top
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0" 2' - 0"2' - 0"2' - 0"
                                                                  0" - 0"2' - 0"2' - 0"




                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"       1' - 6"          1' - 0"        6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Top
                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"       1' - 6"          1' - 0"        6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Top
                                                                                                                                        16th Federal Credit Union                                                                                                     12' - 0"
                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"       1' - 6"          1' - 0"       6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Top
                                                                                                                                             Emergency Care
                                                         0"-5'0"- 2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2' -- 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Top
                                                                                                                                             Happy Teeth, DDS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2' - 0"6'
                                                0"-5'0"- 2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                             Miracle Cleaners




                                                                                                                                                                                                               6' - 0" 6' - 0"6'
                                   5' - 0" 5' - 2'




                                                                                                                                              Close Haircuts
                                 - 0"




                                                                                                                                               Total Beauty
                              - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                             - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                      6' 4'- 0"
                           5' 5'
5' - 0"5' - 0" 5' - 0"5' - 0"




                                                                                                                                              San Fran Pizza



                                                                                                                                                                           4' - 0"4' - 0" 4' - 0"4' - 0"
                                                                                                                                               Fast Burgers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0' - 0"




            9-18M-080: RETAINING WALLS

            When the improvements include retaining walls, the owner shall have the option of
            designing and constructing the retaining walls in compliance with Draper City Code DCMC
            9-27-085 or in conformance with the design recommendations provided by: 1) a licensed
            geotechnical (and structural, if needed) engineer, 2) review and approval by the Draper City
            Engineer, and 3) on-site observation, testing and special inspection (if needed) during
            construction.

            9-18M-090: THROUGH ACCESS FOR RESIDENTS OF SEASONS AT SOUTHPOINT
            APARTMENTS

            The conceptual site plan depicts a one-way access and parking lot drives extending from
            the south side of the project area near the Seasons at Southpoint Apartments through the
            project parking areas to two locations on Highland Drive and to 65 East. The one-way
access and the drives, are shown on the map attached as Exhibit “E” and labeled the
“Seasons Through Access.” Such access with multiple points of entry onto Highland Drive
will be constructed incrementally as each building is completed in the CSD. As the access is
installed, each completed portion will be available for the nonexclusive use of residents
and guests of the Seasons at Southpoint Apartments, so long as during each year the
management of the Crosspoint commercial special district receives, an annual
reimbursement of the preceding year’s annual costs of maintenance, pavement repair or
replacement and snow removal as follows: 1) 100% of the costs incurred in connection with
one-way portion of the access (shown in blue on Exhibit E); and 2) 25% of the costs incurred
in connection with each of the other completed portions of the “Seasons Through Access”.
The width of the access for the #2 portions shall be 24 feet and the length shall be the
distance of the drives for each completed phase shown in yellow representing shared drive
access. On January 5th of each year, management of the Crosspoint commercial special
district project shall send to the manager of the Seasons at Southpoint Apartments records
of the above-described costs. Payment of the invoiced costs on behalf of the Seasons at
Southpoint Apartments shall be due 25 days later by January 30th of each year. In lieu of
this arrangement, the respective managers of the Crosspoint commercial special district
and the Seasons at Southpoint Apartments may enter into a license agreement with
respect to the roadway designated as “Seasons Through Access” on terms and conditions
mutually acceptable to both parties.

The width of the one-way portion of the access shall be twenty-four feet (24’) wide including
shoulders and curbs.

9-18M-100: PROCEDURES

Approval of this CSD text and accompanying graphic exhibits including signage, roadways,
accesses and curb cuts shall constitute conceptual site plan approval in accordance with
City ordinances. Site plan approval for Permitted Uses of the CSD may be approved
administratively by the Zoning Administrator upon finding substantial compliance with the
terms of the CSD, or the Zoning Administrator may defer the review of the application to
the Planning Commission. Except provided otherwise herein, all other permits shall be
processed in accordance with the Draper City requirements, ordinances and procedures.
The images and renderings in this article are conceptual and may be modified by the
developer.

9-18M-110: APPLICATION OF CITY’S VESTED LAWS

Draper City ordinances, adopted codes, policies, regulations, standards and procedures
shall apply to the development of the CSD unless specifically addressed by provisions of
this article.
9-18M-120: EXHIBITS

A.    Conceptual Site Plan
B.    Office Preliminary Drawings
C.    Conceptual Retail Examples of Uses for Retail Pads and In-Line Shops
D.    Conceptual Examples of Lighting Complying With City Standards
E.    Seasons Through Access
                            Exhibit A
                             Site Plan
(Locations, Footprints and Building Configurations Are Conceptual)
         Exhibit B
Preliminary Office Drawings
                    Exhibit C
Conceptual Retail Examples of Uses For Retail Pads
                                Exhibit D
Conceptual Examples of Lighting Complying With Crosspoint CSD Standards
       Exhibit E
Seasons Through Access




                         One-way Access; Blue

                         Two-way Accesses: Yellow
