Draft minutes 9/9/2021
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2021 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:         Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker
                       Commissioners Mary Squire, Gary Ogden and Lisa Fowler, Alternate
                       Commissioners Susan Nixon and Tab Bingham

ABSENT:                Commissioner John Van Hoff and Alternate Commissioner DeLaina
                       Tonks

STAFF PRESENT:         Jennifer Jastremsky, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane,
                       Amie Salazar, Maryann Pickering and Travis Van Ekelenburg

6:30 PM Business Meeting:


1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for August 12, 2021
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for August 12, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Fowler, Hawker, Ogden and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

2.     Public Hearing: River Park Hill and River Park Estates Phase 2 Plat Amendment
       (Administrative Action)

A request of Jeffry Anderson to amend the existing plat to create two lots from Lot 103 of River
Park Hill. A second part of the request will adjust the lots lines between Lot 103 of River Park Hill
and Lot 233 of River Park Estates Phase 2. The properties are located at approximately 12194 S.
Jerema Court and 828 W. Stephens View Way in the R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 square
foot minimum) and RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot minimum) zoning districts.
Application SUB-232-2018. Staff contact is Maryann Pickering at 801.576.6391 or
maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Maryann Pickering, Planner, presented an aerial map, land use map, and zoning map. She clarified
the zoning of the lots and provided history about River Park Estates. She stated that the applicant
is proposing to separate one lot into two. She stated that the other lot is involved due to the
boundaries of the plats.

Applicant, Jeffry Anderson, stated the property owner and developer of the plat. He stated that Ms.
Pickering’s presentation was complete. He inquired about staff recommendation #4 and suggested
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 9, 2021
Page 2
alternative language to the recommendation. He stated that he agrees with the rest of the staff
report.

Commissioner Fowler asked where the building is located.

Mr. Anderson answered and illustrated the building’s location with the map. He stated that it will
have to be demolished but asked that it be demolished 6 months after the approval of the plat
amendment rather than before.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Dave Ostler stated that he is in complete support of this amendment. He stated that his home is the
other lot in question.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Chairman Adams asked Ms. Pickering about the demolition of the building.

Ms. Pickering stated that it will have to be demolished.

Chairman Adams asked Ms. Pickering’s opinion of a solution.

Ms. Pickering stated that the code requires an accessory structure to be behind a primary structure.
She stated that it is currently up to code, but if the lot is divided, then it will have to be demolished.

Jennifer Jastremsky stated that they could modify the language in item #4. She stated that Mr.
Anderson could go to the City Council with a text amendment and wouldn’t have to come before
the Planning Commission again.

Chairman Adams clarified that Ms. Jastremsky’s suggestion would allow the applicant to go
through the process without the Planning Commission. He asked about wording for the motion.

Ms. Jastremsky gave suggestions for wording.

Vice Chairman Hawker asked if they might regret approving the project with the proposed
conditions for future projects.

Mr. Barker stated that the issue with the code is that it doesn’t differentiate between the quality of
a structure. He stated that a text amendment with standards would be helpful going forward.

Chairman Adams inquired about the risk to the applicant.

Commissioner Nixon asked the code changing without changing the text.

Mr. Barker stated that code changes don’t have retroactive application.



                                                    2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 9, 2021
Page 3
Ms. Jastremsky stated that the applicant would have to come back and amend the condition with
the Planning Commission.

Vice Chairman Hawker asked about the timing.

Ms. Pickering reminded commissioners that the approval is good for one year and the applicant
can request a six-month extension.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to approve the plat amendment as requested by
Jeffry Anderson of River Park Hill and River Park Estates Phase 2 Plat Amendment
Application SUB-1033-2020 with modification to condition #4 listed in the staff report prior
to recordation of the plat amendment the owner shall demolish the accessory structure on
the newly created Lot 104, unless modifications or allowances are made in the Draper City
Municipal Code to allow for it to remain and the staff report dated August 31, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Squire, Fowler and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: Draper Flower Cart Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action)

On the request of Tama Pickford for approval of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in
the RM (Multi-family Residential) zone regarding a Home Occupation business as a florist located
at 1593 E. Timoney Rd. Application USE-0123-2021, Staff contact: Travis Van Ekelenburg, (801)
576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov.

Travis Van Ekelenburg presented the land use map and zoning map. He stated that the applicant
will be preparing and selling floral arrangements out of her home. He stated that the applicant will
be the only employee and will be delivering the floral arrangements in her personal vehicle. He
stated that there would be no alterations to the property for the business. He stated that the applicant
will be utilizing part of the existing second kitchen in the home and the storage area adjacent to
the kitchen. He stated that this application is reviewed under the 1999 code, which doesn’t have
the same requirements as the current code; however, they are similar. He stated that the home is
approximately 4,560 square feet and 82 square feet, or 2%, of the home will be utilized for the
business. He stated that 6 square feet will be used for storage and the remaining 76 square feet will
be used for the making of the floral arrangements.

Commissioner Fowler asked about why the 1999 code is being used.

Mr. Van Ekelenburg stated that the property is located in the South Mountain area.

Mr. Barker clarified that there are certain areas of the city that are not subject to the Draper Code.




                                                   3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 9, 2021
Page 4
Applicant, Tama Pickford, stated that she is the owner and only employee. She stated that she will
be using space that already exists. She stated that she is delivery only and there is no impact in her
neighborhood.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the Home Occupational Conditional
Use Permit as requested by Tama Pickford Application USE-0123-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated August 27, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Squire.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Fowler, Ogden and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: Bangerter Crossing Plat Amendment (Administrative Action)

On request of Elizabeth Cole for approval of a Plat Amendment in the CR and CO2 zones
regarding the Bangerter Crossing Lot 4 Subdivision located at 119 E 13800 S. Application SUBD-
0065-2021; Staff contact: Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522, Travis Van Ekelenburg, (801)
576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov.

Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner, presented the land use map and zoning map. He stated that the
application has some split zoning. He explained the merging of two plats and a boundary line
adjustment.

Vice chairman Hawker asked about the location of Fairfield Inn in the are.

Mr. Van Ekelenburg stated that he is unsure about the progress for Fairfield Inn.

Brady Morris stated that he is representing Elizabeth Cole as she was unable to attend the meeting.
He stated that the hotel and office building will hopefully still be ready to move forward.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the plat amendment as requested by
Elizabeth Cole Application SUBD-0065-2020 based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.




                                                  4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 9, 2021
Page 5
Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Fowler, Ogden and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

5.     Public Hearing: Improvement Completion Assurances Text Amendment (Legislative
       Action)

On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to Title 9 and 17 regarding improvement
completion     assurances.   Staff    contact  is   Spencer     DuShane,     801-576-6583,
spencer.dushane@draperutah.gov

Spencer DuShane presented. He explained the reasons for the amendment. He stated that the
ordinances are also being updated to match the updated code. He stated that there were some
drafting errors that were corrected.

Commissioner Nixon asked about 17-4-075.

Ms. Jastremsky clarified the full change in the staff report.

Mr. DuShane clarified 17-5-060.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that there is some fine-tuning of the language but the overall process will
not be changing.

Mr. DuShane clarified 17-4-075 and the red-lining copy versus the clean copy.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Jeffry Anderson stated that he is a developer. He stated that he has posted bonds with the city for
development with the city. He asked about the demolition of buildings and whether he could post
a bond for the demolition of his building. He stated that he suggested this idea to staff, but the
current code doesn’t allow that. He asked whether demolition might be included in the new
definition.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to send a positive recommendation to City Council
for the presented text amendments as requested by staff regarding the improvement
completion assurances based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff
report dated September 1, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Fowler, Ogden and Nixon voted, “Aye”.




                                                  5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 9, 2021
Page 6
Chairman Adams inquired if there was anything else that needed to be discussed before the
meeting adjourned.

Ms. Jastremsky notified commissioners she would be sending out individual emails about making
up training sessions for those who may have missed some trainings. As these trainings are required
by State Law, she asked the commissioners to look for those emails so they can make up any
missed trainings.

6.     Adjournment

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to adjourn the meeting.

Vote: All were in favor of adjournment.

The meeting adjourned 7:18 p.m.




                                                6
